Articles of a treaty made and concluded at Tansey Point, near Clatsop plains, this ninth day of August, eighteen hundred  and fifty-one, between Anson Dart, superintendent of Indian affairs, Henry H. Spalding, Indian agent, and Josiah L. Parrish, Indian subagent, on the part of the United States, of the one part, and the undersigned chiefs and head men of the Klatskania band of the Chinook tribe of Indians, of the other part:

ARTICLE 1. The said Klatskania band hereby cede to the United States the tract of land included with n th_ following boundaries, viz: beginning at a point opposite the mouth of the Cowlitz River, on the southern shore fth_ Columbia, and running thence easterly, following said southern shore to the west bounds of lands owned by the Ca oose band of Indians; thence southerly, following said lands of the Capoose band to the north bounds of lands clai ed b_ the Twalaty band of Callapooya Indians; thence westerly, following said north bounds to lands lately owned y th_ Tillamook Indians; thence northerly, following the eastern boundary of the Tillamooks and Nue-que-clah-we-nuc an_ Konnaacks to the place of beginning. The above description is intended to include all the land claimed by th sai_ Klatskanias. 

ART 2. The said Klatskania band reserve to themselves the privilege of occupying their present place of resi ence,1 and of fishing and hunting within the above described boundaries.

ART. 3. In consideration of the cession made in article first of this treaty, the United States agree to pay to the said Klatskania band an annuity of four hundred and thirty dollars for ten years, as follows, to wit: 

fifty dollars in money, twenty blankets, five coats, five pairs pants, five vests, ten shirts, ten  pairs shoes, fifty yards linsey plaid, fifty ards calico, fifty yards shirting, six blanket shawls, fifty pounds soap, one sack salt, ten bags flour, twenty-five pounds tobacco, five hoes, five axes, five knives, ten cotton handkerchiefs, ten gallons molasses, fifty pounds sugar, enty pounds tea, three eight-quart brass kettles, five ten-quart tin pans, ten pint cups, ten six-quart pans, five caps, one keg powder, fifty pounds shot and lead; all of the above to be of good quality and to be delivered to Burnie's landing, on  the Columbia River.

	ART. 4. There shall be perpetual peace and friendship between all the citizens of the United States of America and all the individuals composing the said Klatskania band of Chinooks.

	ART. 5. This agreement shall be binding and obligatory upon the contracting parties as soon as the same shall be ratified and confirmed by the President and Senate of the United States.	

In testimony whereof the said Anson Dart, superintendent, Henry H. Spalding, agent, and Josiah L. Pain-ish, subagent, and the undersigned chiefs and head men of the said Klatskania band, have hereunto set their hands and seals, at the time and place first herein above written.

Signed, sealed, and witnessed in presence of¬NICHOLAS Du BOIS, Secretary.

(It was agreed that the said band receive at the first payment three good rifles as presents.)