Treaty made and concluded on the 7th day of August one thousand eight hundred and fifty five between Garland Hurt Indian Agent for the Territory of Utah for and in behalf of the President and Senate of the United States of the one part and the Chiefs, head men, and warriors of the Sho-sho-nee Nation of Indians (commonly called Snake Diggers) occupying the northern, and middle portion of the Valley of the Humboldt River of the other part 

We the Chiefs and head men of the Sho-sho-nee Nation do hereby declare that all former disputes and feelings of hostility between our people and the people of the United States are this day amicably adjusted and settled. 

We guarantee to the people of the United States perfect safety to life and property at all times when peacefully sojourning in, or traveling through our country. 

We give the right of way through our country to the people of the United States, that said people may pass and repass without harm to themselves or property. 

We will treat all persons claiming to be citizens of the United States who may settle in our country as brothers and friends, and not as enemies. 

We acknowledge the supremacy of the laws of the United States and that all persons who may hereafter commit crimes within the limits of our country shall be accounted answerable to said laws. 

We will use all diligence when called to aid the officers and people of the United States in arresting and bringing to justice, all persons who may have committed crimes within the limits of our country irrespective of the tribes or nations to which the offenders may belong. 

And the said Garland Hurt for, and in behalf of the President and Senate of the United States, pledges hereby the friendship and good will of the people of the said States to the Chiefs and people of the said Sho-sho-nee Nation. 

For, and in consideration of the faithful observance of all the obligations above stipulated on the part of the Chiefs and people of the said Sho-sho-nee Nation of Indians, the President of the United States will give to the Chief and people of said nation, through his proper agent, the sum of three thousand dollars in presents (such as provisions, clothing and farming implements &c) to be delivered to them at some convenient point within the limits of their country, on or before the 30th day of September 1857: Provided however that if any part of the above treaty shall be violated by any of the Chiefs or people of the said Sho-sho-nee Nation the above obligations on the part of the President of the United States shall be void, or held at his discretion until such time as ample atonement shall have been made for such violation: Provided further, that if the President and Senate of the United States shall refuse to ratify this treaty, the same shall be void. 

In witness whereof the said Garland Hurt and the aforesaid Chiefs and head men have hereunto subscribed their names and affixed the seals. 

Signed in presence of A. P. Hawes, Interpreter. 