Articles of agreement and convention made and concluded at the places and dates hereinafter named, in the Territory of Oregon, by Joel Palmer, Superintendent of Indian Affairs, on the part of the United States, and the following chiefS and headmen of the confederate tribes and bands of Indians residing along the coast west of the summit of the Coast Range of mountains and between the Columbia River on the north and the southern boundary on the south, they being duly authorized thereto by their respective bands, to wit:	

Lonie, Cal-he-na, Jel-kete, Albert, Kihose, Sme-ka-hite, Quink-ouse Kos-kup, Qua-mah, Kle-ick, Pah-hi, Ha-akb, Tu-e-to, Que-lis-ka, and Quo-op-pa, of the Alcea band ofTilamooks; Jim, Con-chu, Toch-a-lie, Pah-ni-ka-u, No-cos¬curt, Tlate-hal, He-a-kah, Sam-may, Ke-etch, and John of the Yah-quo-nah band of Tilamooks; Jim, Sis-nah-q_o-liq, Scho-yo, Kle-con-onts, Yon-ton, Flouched, To-cot-so, Jake, Chah-quo-Iah, Chin-na-quo-wash, Tu-e-uch, Ah-_is-Ie_, Se-cow-in, Jo-han-na, and Yet sit of the Seletsa band of Tillamooks; John, of the Ne-a-ches-na band of Tilarrooks; Eneos, De-Chaum, John, Pos-cal, Ha-Io-tuth, Kal-Ia-wot-sa, Hal-Io-gleese, Bi-cham-an, Louis, Lake-man, Jerome, PeJ, and Wilson, of the Sin-slau tribe; Jim, Tim, Tom, Sam, Fat-tim, Don-quix-otte, Charley, Que-ii-me, Qui-it, and Ha-IoL lea-no, of the Kal-a-wot-set or Ump-qua tribe; Jim 1st, Bob, John 1st, George, William, Charley 1st, Dock, DicIt aIel man-doctor, Tom 1st, Captain, Stephen, Cal-Iolt, Wol-lonch, Loch-itch, Wol-Ioch, Pete, Jackson, Hal-lice, Taylor, Pe4 lee-gray, Joe, Sam 1st, Charley 2d, Sam 2d, Jim 2d, Johnson, Charley 3d, Ole-man, Jack, Tom 2d, Jim 3d, Jolpd Gabriel, Cris, Kah-tite, Ne-at-tal-woot, Jake, Quin-ul-chet, Yet-so-no, Lolkt, Damon, Ka-tow-na, Loch-hite, Ten-ach, Ki-hi-ah, How-seach, Ko-at-qua, Solomon, Lol-lotch, Skil-a-milt, Yah-who-wich, Tes-ich-man, How-new-wot, Squat¬kle-ah, Ki-wot-set, Al-la-wom-mets, Too-toe, and No-whe-na, of the Kowes Bay tribe; T-sin-no-nas, Pil-le-kis, Clas¬wan-ta, Sat-toe, Wah-hench, Tom, Joe, Mal-o-quock, Won-ot-tlos, Mil-luck, John 1st, Charley, Che-kaw-nah, Kume¬mas, T-sha-saw, Kow-u-quaw, Sands, T-sis-tah-noo-ka, Mah-tlose, Chil-Iah, How-ouse, Charles, Lah-Iee, Noc-to-soch, O-Chayly, Klong-klus, Bill, Other-tom, Yohn, Nelson, Socks-ey, Joe-Lane, Frank, John 2d, Jim, George, Bob, EI-kah¬hut, Klo-kot-on, Lan-dish, Kitchen, and Jim-too-wah, of the Quans-sake-nah, Klen-nah-hah, and Ke-ah-mas-e-ton bands ofNas-o-mah or Coquille tribe; Tag-o-ne-cia, Loo-ney, Yon, and Jim, of the Ko-se-e-chah band of Too-too-to-neys; Whiskers, Ten-as-tie, En-nach-nah, and Ta-wos-kah, of the Se-qua-chee band ofToo-too-to-neys; An-ne-at-ta, Tal-ma¬net-sa, Ko-chil-Ia, and Hust-Ia-no, of the Too-too-to-ny band ofToo-too-to-neys; En-tlack, Too-whus-kah, Ka-tuIch-kla, and No-get-toe-it, of the Chitco tribe; Sin-whus-chan, En-san-e-klon, Enpnah-wose-tah, and Yas-kah-chin-a-mah-tin, of the Yah-shute band of Too-too-to-neys; Nal-tah-nos-shah, Chah-hus-sah, Kos-sa-on, and E-ule-te-tes-tlah, of the Whis-to-natin band ofToo-too-to-neys; Ses-tel-tul, Yot-sa, and Hus-to-mah-say, of the Cos-sa-to-ny band of To 0- too- to¬neys; Mos-quot, No-on-me-has-quah, Tuc-qua, and Cosh-nul-see, of the Chet-less-ing-ton band of Too-too-to-neys; Smut-tah-ta, Too-kus-chal-nah, Se-tah-kul, and Schal-Iah, of the Port Orford band of Too-too-to-neys; Ah-chase, Tos¬ton, Quil-see, and Yo-wolt-ma, of the Eukie-chee band of Too-too-to-neys; Mussle-tie and Too-quot, of the Kus-so-to¬ny band ofToo-too-to-neys; Non-whalt, Kloose-tla, and Eu-til-mus, of the Kler-it-Ia-tel band ofToo-too-to-neys; Ult-sa¬yah, Yah-sun-see, Ton-ua-nic-a-sha, Che-nun-tun, and Chis-tah-tah, of the Te-cha-quot band ofToo-too-to-neys; Tut-lel¬aI-ius, En-sal-sun, Squo-che-nol-ta, Shet-nul-lus, and Noch-nos-see-yah, of the Mack-a-no-tin band ofToo-too-to-neys; Washington Tom, Chi-a-Ie-tin, Tie, Ni-ich-lo-sis, Tu-si-wah, Jackson, and David, of the Cah-toch, Chin-chen-ten-tah-ta, Whiston, and Klen-hos-tun bands of Coquilles.

ARTICLE 1. The above-named confederated bands of Indians cede to the United States all their right, title, and interest to all and every part of the country claimed by them included in the following boundaries, to wit: Commencing in the middle of the channel of the Columbia River, at the northwestern extremity of the purchase made of the Calapooia and Molalla bands of Indians; thence running southerly with that boundary to the southwestern point of that purchase, and thence along the summit of the Coast Range of mountains with the western boundaries of the purchase made of the Umpquas and Molallas of the Umpqua Valley, and of the Scotons, Chastes, and Grave Creeks of Rogue River Valley, to the southern boundary of Oregon Territory; thence west to the Pacific Ocean, thence northerly along said ocean to the middle of the northern channel of the Columbia River; thence following the middle of said channel to the place of beginning: Provided, however, That so much of the country described above as is contained in the following boundaries shall, until otherwise directed by the President of the United States, be set apart as a residence for said Indians, and such other bands or parts of bands as may, by direction of the President of the United States, be located thereon.

Such tract for the purpose contemplated shall be held and regarded as an Indian reservation, to wit: Commencing

where the northern boundary of the seventeenth range of townships south of the base line strikes the coast; thence east to the western boundary of the eighth range of townships west of the Willamette meridian, as indicated by John B. Preston's "Diagram of a portion of Oregon Territory;" thence north on that line to the southern boundary of the third range oftownships south of the base line; thence west to the Pacific Ocean; and thence southerly along the coast to the place of beginning: Provided, however, That the district west of the said eighth range of townships, between the said northern boundary of range seventeen and the fourth standard parallel south, shall, for the term of twenty years, be held and regarded as a part of said Indian reservation, and together with the tract described by this section, as such, be subject to the laws regulating "trade and intercourse with Indian tribes" now in force, or hereafter enacted by the Congress of the United States. All of which tract shall be set apart, and, so far as necessary, surveyed and marked out, for the exclusive use of such Indians as are, or may hereafter be, located thereon; nor shall any person other than an Indian be permitted to reside upon the same without the consent and permission of the Superintendent of Indian Affairs and the agent having charge of said district.	

The said bands and tribes agree to remove to and settle upon the same within one year after the ratification of this convention, without any additional expense to the Government other than is provided by this treaty; and until the expiration of the time specified the said bands shall be permitted to occupy and reside upon the tracts now possessed by them, guaranteeing to all white citizens the right to enter upon and occupy as settlers any lands not included in said reservation, or actually enclosed by said Indians: Provided, however, That, when the public interest or convenience may require, the right of constructing roads, railroads, or other public highways, and navigating the streams or bays in said reservation, is hereby secured to the United States: And provided also, That if any band or bands of Indians residing in and claiming any portion of the country herein described shall not accede to the terms of this treaty, then the bands becoming parties hereunto. agree to receive such part of the several annuities and other payments hereinafter named a consideration for the entire country described as aforesaId as shall be In the proportion that their aggregate number may have to the whole number of Indians residing in and claiming the entire country aforesaid as consideration and payment in full for the tracts in said country claimed by them: And provided also, That where substantial improvements have been made by individuals of bands becoming parties to this treaty which they shall be compelled to abandon consequence of said treaty, the same shall be valued under direction of the President of the United States, and payment made said individuals therefor, or, in lieu thereof, improvements of an equal extent and value, at their option, shall be made on the tracts assigned to each respectively.	

ARTICLE 2. In consideration of and payment for the country hereby ceded, the United States agree to pay to the

bands and tribes of Indians claiming territory and residing in said country the several sums of money, to wit: Ten thousand dollars per annum for the first three years, commencing on or before the first day of September, 1857; eight thousand dollars per annum for the term of three years next succeeding the first three; six thousand dollars per annum for the term of three years next succeeding the second three, and three thousand dollars per annum for the term bf six years next succeeding the third three.

All of which several sums of money shall be expended for the use and benefit of the confederated bands under the direction of the President of the United States, who may from time to time, at his discretion, determine what proportion thereof shall be expended for such objects as, in his judgment, will promote their well-being and advance them in civilization; for their mutual improvement and education; for buildings, opening and fencing farms, breaking land, providing teaIns, stock, agricultural implements, seed, &c.; for clothing, payment of mechanics and farmers, and for arms and ammunition.	

ARTICLE 3. The United States agree to pay said Indians the additional sum of thirty thousand dollars, a portion whereof shall be applied to the payment for such articles as may be advanced them at the time of signing this treaty, and in providing, after the ratification thereof, and prior to their removal, such articles as may be deemed by the President essential to their wants; for the erection of buildings on the reservation, fencing and opening farms; for the purchase of teams, farming implements, tools, and seeds; for the payment of employes, and for subsisting the Indians the first year after their removal.

ARTICLE 4. In addition to the consideration specified, the United States agree to erect at suitable points on the reservation two sawmills, two flouring mills, four schoolhouses, and two blacksmith shops, to one of which shall be attached a tin shop; and for two sawyers, two millers, one superintendent of farming operations, three farmers, one physician, four school-teachers, and two blacksmiths, a dwelling house and the necessary outbuildings for each; and to purchase and keep in repair, for the time specified for furnishing employes, all necessary mill fixtures, mechaniCal tools, medicines, books, and stationery for schools, and furniture for employes.

The United States further engage to secure and pay for the services and subsistence, for the term of fifteen years, of three farmers, two blacksmiths, two sawyers, two millers; and for the term of twenty years, of one physician, one superintendent of farming operations, and four school-teachers.

The United States also engage to retain in the service one Indian agent, and to erect at the most central suitable point agency buildings, where such agent shall reside.

ARTICLE 5. The half-breeds, legal representatives of the bands and tribes being parti_s to this treaty, who reside outside of the reservation shall be allowed to draw the share of annuity payments to which they may be entitled, either in cash or goods, at their option; and when residing upon the reservation they shall be entitled to all the benefit of annuity as well as other payments; but no half-breed shaH be permitted to reside upon said reservation without the concurrent consent of the superintendent and agent.

ARTICLE 6. The President may, from time to time, at his discretion, cause the whole, or such portion as he may think proper, of the tract that may now or hereafter be set apart as a permanent home for these Indians, to be surveyed into lots and assigned to such Indians of the confederated bands as may wish to enjoy the privilege and locate thereon permanently; to a single person over twenty-one years of age, forty acres; to a family of two persons, sixty acres; to a family of three and not exceeding five, eighty acres; to a family of six persons and not exceeding ten, one hundred and twenty acres; and to each family over ten in number, twenty acres for each additional three members. And the President may provide such rules and regulations as will secure to the family, in case of the death of the head thereof, the possession and enjoyment of such permanent home and the improvements thereon; and he may at any time, at his discretion, after such person or family has made location on the land assigned as a permanent home, issue a patent to such person or family for such assigned land, conditioned that the tract shaH not be aliened or leased for a longer term

than two years, and shall be exempt from levy, sale, or forfeiture, which condition shall continue in force until a State constitution, embracing such lands within its limits, shaH have been formed, and the legislature of the State shall remove the restriction: Provided, however, That no State legislature shall remove the restriction herein provided for without the consent of Congress: And provided also, That if any person or family shaH at any time neglect or refuse to occupy or tiII a portion of the land assigned, and on which they have located, or shall roam from place to place, indicating a desire to abandon said home, the President may, if the patent shall have been issued, revoke the same, and if not issued, cancel the assignment; and may also withhold from such person or family their portion of the annuities or other money due them, until they shaH have returned to such permanent home and resumed the pursuits of industry; and in default of their return, the tract may be declared abandoned, and thereafter assigned to some other person or family of Indians residing on said reservation.

ARTICLE 7. The annuities of the Indians shall not be taken to pay the debts of individuals.

ARTICLE 8. The confederated bands acknowledge their dependence on the Government of the United States, and

promise to be friendly with all the citizens thereof, and pledge themselves to commit no depredations on the property of said citizens; and should anyone or more of the Indians violate this pledge, and the fact be satisfactorily proven before the agent, the property taken shall be returned; or in default thereof, or if injured or destroyed, compensation may be made by the Government out of their annuities; nor wiII they make war on any other tribe of Indians, except in self¬defense, but submit all matters of difference between them and other Indians to the Government of the United States, or its agents, for decision, and abide thereby; and if any of the said Indians commit any depredations on other Indians, the same rule shall prevail as that prescribed in the case of depredations against citizens.

ARTICLE 9. For the purpose of establishing uniformity ofIaws, rules, and regulations among the various bands of Indians being parties to this treaty, and to give greater security to person and property, it is hereby agreed that the Congress of the United States, with the approval of the President, shall have power to enact laws for the government of said Indians.

ARTICLE 10. In order to prevent the evils of intemperance among said Indians, it is hereby provided that if any one of them drink liquor to excess, or procure it for others to drink, his or her proportion of the annuities may be withheld I from him or her for such time as the President may determine.

ARTICLE 11. The United States agree to expend a sum of money, not exceeding ten thousand dollars, in opening and constructing wagon roads between the different settlements on said reservation, and from the saw and flouring miIls herein provided for to said settlements; and in the event of a failure to effect secure landings for vessels in the transportation of annuity goods within said reservation, the additional sum, not exceeding ten thousand dollars, shall be expended by the United States in opening and constructing a wagon road from some point at or near the mouth of Ne-aches-na or Salmon River to the settlements in the WiIlamette Valley, and one wagon road from some navigable point on Yah-quo-nah or Alcea River to the valley of the WilIamette.	.

ARTICLE 12. The United States engage to establish and maintain a military post on said reservation whensoever the peace and safety of the Indians residing thereon shall render the same necessary.

ARTICLE 13. This treaty shall be obligatory on the contracting parties as soon as the same shall be ratified by the  President and Senate of the United States.	I

In testimony whereof, the said Joel Palmer, on the part of the United States, and the undersigned chiefs; headbten, and delegates of the said confederated bands, have hereunto set their hands and seals this eleventh day of August, eighteen hundred and fifty-five.	 

Superintendent of Indian Affairs, Oregon Territory.  

We, the chiefs, headmen, and delegates of the Sueslan and Winchester Bay bands of the Kal-e-wat-set or Umpqua I

tribe of Indians, and the several bands of Kowes Bay Indians, after having had fully explained to us the above treaty, do hereby accede to its provisions, and affix our signatures, or marks, this 17th day of August, 1855;

We, the chiefs, headmen, and delegates of the Quans, Sake-nah, Klen-nah-hah, and Ke-ah-mas-e-ton bands ofNas-o-mah or Coquille tribe of Indians, after having had fully explained to us the above treaty, do hereby accede to lits provisions, and affix our signatures or marks, this 23d day of August, 1855.

CHRIS. TAYLOR, Secretary. JOHN FLETT, Interpreter.

IN. BTS. GAGNIER, Interpreter. JOSEPH E. CLARK, Interpreter. E. P. DREW, Sub-Indian Agent. R. W. DUNBAR.

We, the chiefs, headmen, and delegates of the Se-quate-sah, Ko-se-a-chah, Euka-che, Yah-shute, Too-too-to-ny, Mack-a-no-tin, Kos-sul-to-ny, Mussle, Cos-sa-to-ny, Klu-it-ta-tel, Te-cha-quot, Chet-less-ing-ton, and Wis-to-na- in bands of Too too tony tribe and Chet-co tribe of Indians, after having had fully explained to us the above treaty, do here y accede to its provisions, with the following proviso:

That the canoes belonging to the members of our respective bands shall either be transported to the district designated as a reservation, or other canoes or boats furnished in lieu thereof, or the value of the same paid the India s by the Government of the United States, at the discretion of the latter, and that means of transportation for the 0 d, infirm, and children, with goods, wares, and chattels belonging to the members of the said bands, and subsistence r the members thereof during time of removal, shall also be furnished by, and at the expense of, the Government oft e United States.

In witness whereof we hereunto affix our signatures, or marks, this thirtieth day of August, 1855.

AUGUST V. KAUTZ, 2d Lieut. 4th Infantry. DR. R. GLISAN, USA.

We, the chiefs, headmen, and delegates of the Cah-toch-say, Chin-chen-ten-tah-ta, Whis-ton, and Klen-hos-tun

bands of Coquille tribe of Indians, after having had fuIly explained to us the above treaty do hereby accede to its provisions and affix our signatures or marks, this 8th day of September, 1855.	I