Preliminary articles of a treaty of peace and friendship between the United States and the Spokane nation of Indians.

ARTICLE 1. Hostilities shall cease between the United States, and the Spokane nation of Indians from and after this date.

ART. 2. The chiefs and headmen of the Spokane Indians, for and in behalf of the whole nation, promise to deliver up to the United States all property in their possession belonging either to the government orto individual white persons.

ART. 3. The chiefs and headmen of the Spokane Indians, for and in behalf of the whole nation, promise and agree to deliver to the officers in command of the United States troops the men who commenced the attack upon Lieutenant Colonel Steptoe, contrary to the orders of their chiefs, and, further, to deliver as aforesaid at least one chief and four men, with their families, as hostages for their future good conduct.

ART. 4. The chiefs and headmen of the Spokane nation of Indians promise, for and in behalf of the whole tribe, that all white persons shall at all times and places pass through their country unmolested, and, further, that no Indians hostile to the United States shall be allowed to pass through or remain in their country.

ART. 5. The foregoing conditions being fully complied with by the Spokane nation, the officers in command of the United States troops promises that no war shall be made upon the Spokanes, and, further, that the men delivered up, whether as prisoners or hostages, shall in nowise be injured, and shall within the period of one year be restored to their nation.

ART. 6. It is agreed by both of the aforesaid parties that this treaty shall also extend to and include the Nez Perce nation of Indians.

Done at the headquarters of the expedition against the northern Indians, at camp on the Ned-whauld, (or Lahtoo,) Washington Territory, this twenty-third day of September, eighteen hundred and fifty-eight.

POHLATKIN, SPOKAN GARRY, SKULHULL, MOIST-LUIM, SKI-KI-AH-MEN, SHE-LUH-KI-ITS-ZE, KI-AH-MENS, HOH-HOH-MES, HUSE- TUH-HIM-HIGH,