Treaty stipulations made and entered fpto this 19th day of June, 1865, at Doaksville, C. N., between Lieut. Col. A. C. Matthews and Adjt. W. H. Vance, U.S. Volunteers, commissioners appointed by the military authorities of the United States, and P. P. Pitchlynn, principa1 chief and governor of the Choctaw Nation on part of said nation, as follows, to wit:	

ARTICLE I. All acts of hostilities on the p_ of both armies having ceased (by virtue of a convention entered into on the 26th day of May, 1865, between Maj. qFn. E. R. S. Canby, U.S. Army, commanding Military Division of West Mississippi, and General E. Kirby Smith, c,s Army, commanding Trans-Mississippi Department), the Indians of the Choctaw Nation here represented, lately allied with the Confederate States in acts of hostility against the Government of the United States, do agree at once to return to their respective homes, and there remain at peace with the United States and offer no indignity whatever or commit any acts of hostilities against the whites or Indians of the various tribes who have been friendly to or engaged in the service of the United States during the war.

ART. II. It is stipulated by the undersigned commissioners on the part of the United States that so long as the Indians aforesaid observe the provisions of Article I qfthis agreement they shall be protected by the U.S. authorities in their persons and property, not only from the encr_achments on the part of the whites but also from the Indians who have been engaged in the service of the United States.

ART. III. The above articles of agreemen_ to remain and be in full force and effect until the meeting of the grand council to meet at Armstrong Academy, C'1'f_' on the 1st day of September, A.D. 1865, and until such time as the proceedings of said council shall be ratified bYlthe proper authorities, both of the Choctaw Nation and the United States.

In testimony whereof the said Lieut. Col. A. C. Matthews and Adjt. W. H. Vance, commissioners on the part of the United States, and P. P. Pitchlynn, principal friefand governor of the Choctaw Nation, have hereto set their hands.