ARTICLES OF PROVISIONAL AGREEMENT entered into on Saturday, the seventeenth day of October, 1818, between the Honourable William Claus, Deputy Superintendent General of Indian Affairs in behalf of His Majesty, of the one party, and Musquakie, or Yellow Head, Chief of Rein Deer Tribe, Kaqueticum, Chief of the Cat Fish Tribe, Maskigonce of the Otter Tribe, Manitonobe of the Pike Tribe, Principal men of the Chippewa Nation of Indians, inhabiting the northern parts of the unpurchased lands within the Home District, of the other part, Witnesseth: that for and in consideration of the yearly sum of twelve hundred pounds, Province currency, in goods at the Montreal price to be well and truly paid yearly and every year by His said Majesty to the said Chippewa Nation, inhabiting and claiming the said tract, which may be otherwise known as follows: Bounded by the District of London on the west, by Lake Huron on the north, by the Penetangueshine purchase (made in 1815) on the east, by the south shore of Kempenfelt Bay, the western shore of Lake Simcoe and Cook's Bay and the Holland River to the north-west angle of the Township of King, containing by computation one million five hundred and ninety-two thousand acres, and the said Musquakie, Kaqueticum, Maskigonce and Manitonobie, as well for themselves as for the Chippewa Nation inhabiting and claiming the said tract of land as above described, do freely fully, and voluntarily surrender and convey that same to His Majesty without reservation or limitation in perpetuity.

And the said William Claus, in behalf of His Majesty, does hereby promise and agree to pay to the said Nation of Indians inhabiting as above mentioned, yearly and every year for ever, the said sum of twelve hundred pounds currency in goods at the Montreal price, which sum the said Chiefs and Principal People parties hereunto acknowledge as a full consideration for the lands hereby sold and conveyed to His Majesty.

IN WITNESS WHEROF, the parties have here hereunto set their hands and seals on the day first above mentioned in the Township of King.

Signed, sealed and delivered in the presence of us:

J. GIVINS, Supt. Indian Affairs.
ALEX. MCDONELL, Asst. Sec'y Indian Affairs.
JOHN CLAUS.

W. CLAUS, Dep. Supt. Gen., on behalf of the Crown, [L.S.]

MUSQUAKIE, OR YELLOW HEAD, (totem) [L.S.]
KAQUETICUM, OR SNAKE, (totem) [L.S.]
MUSKIGONCE, SWAMP, (totem) [L.S.]
MANITONOBE, OR MALE DEVIL, (totem) [L.S.]
MANITONOBE, OR DEVIL'S BIRD, (totem) [L.S.]