SURRENDER by the Ottawas and Chippewas of Detroit of a certain tract of land on the south side of Detroit River, also on island in mouth of said river to His Majesty.

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that we, the principal village and war Chiefs of the Ottawa and Chippewa Nations of Detroit, for and inconsideration of the goodwill, friendship and affection, which we have for Alexander McKee, who has served with us against the enemy during the late war, have, by and with the consent of the hole of our said nations, given, granted, enfeoffed, alienated, confirmed, and by these presents do give, grant, and enfeoff, alien and confirm unto His Majesty George the Third, King of Great Britain, France and Ireland, &c., &c., &c., a certain tract of land situated on the south side of Detroit River, beginning at the line granted on the seventh day of June, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-four, by the Ottawas and Hurons to Indian officers, and running an easterly course along said line until it arrives at the end of seven English miles; from thence a northerly course bearing always in breadth seven English miles from the said River Detroit till it strikes the most northerly branch of the River Canard; thence down the said branch and River Carnard to the mouth thereof, and from thence down the River Detroit to the place of beginning. Also an island in the mouth of said River Detroit, commonly known by the name of Bois Blanc, with all and singular the appurtenances unto the said tract of land and island belonging or in any wise appertaining, and the reversion and reversions, remainder and remainders, rents and services of the said premises, and all the estate, right, title, interest, property, claim or demand whatever of us the said Chiefs or any one whatever of our said nations, in and to said tract or parcel of land, or of, in and to every part or parcel thereof, to have and to hold the said lands and premises hereby given and granted, or mentioned or intended to be given and granted, unto His said Majesty George the Third, His heirs and successors, for the only purpose or proper use and behoof of His said Majesty George the Third, His heirs and successors for ever. And we, the said Chiefs, for ourselves and the whole of our said nations, our and their heirs, executors administrators, do covenant, promise and grant to and whit His said Majesty George the Third, Hi heirs and successors, by these presents, that His said Majesty, His heirs and successors, shall and lawfully may from henceforth and forever after peaceably and quietly have, hold, occupy, possess and enjoy the said tract or parcel of land hereby given and granted, with all and every of its appurtenances, free, clear and discharged, or well and sufficiently saved, kept harmless and indemnified of, from and against all former and other gifts, grants, bargains and sales, and of, from and against all former and other titles, troubles, charges or incumbrances whatever, had, done or suffered, or to be had done or suffered, by any of us, the Chiefs, or by any one whatever of the said nations, our and their heirs, executors or administrators; and by these presents do make this our act and deed irrevocably under any pretence whatever of the said nations, and have put His said Majesty in full possession and seizing by allowing houses to be built on the premises.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we, the said Chiefs, four ourselves and the said nations, have unto these presents affixed the marks of our different tribes at Detroit aforesaid, the fifteenth day of May, in the twenty-sixth year of the reign of Our Sovereign Lord George the Third of Great Britain France and Ireland, King, Defender of the faith, etc., and of Our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty-six.

Signed in presence of:

THOS. WILLIAMS
JOHN CLARKE
DANL. FIELDS

EQCESBAWA,} Ottawas.
HIQUELOW,} Bear Tribe.
KENSAVANSE, Wolf Tribe.
PANDIAC.
ASSINOWA.
SHABOQUI,} Chippewas.
HAWQUOSSEAU,} Eagle Tribe.
MISQULEAWPAWN.
TICKCOUOEGOSSOW.

A true copy.

D. W. SMITH,
Secretary to the Land Office Board, District of Hesse.