UPPER CANADA

To all to whom these presents may come, – GREETING:

WHEREAS we, the principal Chiefs, Warriors and people of the Ottawa, Chippewa, Powtawatamie and Wyandot of Indians, being desirous for a certain consideration hereafter shown, of selling and disposing of a certain parcel or Tract of Land, situate, lying and being on the South East side of the Detroit River and known by the name of the Huron Church Reserve unto His Britannic Majesty King George the Third our Great Father: Now know ye that we the said principal Chiefs, Warriors and people of the Ottawa, Chippewa, Powtawatamie and Wyandot Nations for and in consideration of Three Hundred pounds Quebec Currency, value in goods estimated according to the Montreal price, and now delivered to us, the receipt whereof we hereby acknowledge, Have given, granted, sold, disposed of and confirmed, and by these presents Do give, grant, sell, dispose of and confirm forever unto Captain Thomas McKee, Superintendent of Indian Affairs for and on behalf of His said Britannic Majesty King George the Third His Heirs and Successors, all that parcel or Tract of Land known and called as aforesaid by the name of the Huron Church Reserve, beginning at a stone Boundary between the lands of the said Captain Thomas McKee and the said Huron Church Reserve; from thence following the windings up the said River to a certain Creek, about one hundred and fifty-seven yards above a wind-mill belonging or lately belonging to Messieurs Baby; thence South seventy-three degrees east one hundred and thirty-four chains and two Links; and thence north seventy-four degrees West one hundred and sixty-one Chains and forty links till it intersects the said River Detroit, which intersection is the station or place of beginning, Containing by admeasurement One thousand and seventy-eight Acres be the same more or less, and is more particularly described by a sketch of the same hereunto annexed, and colored Red.

AND WHEREAS it appeared to us in Council that the ground about His said Majesty's Garrison of Amherstburgh was too small and confined, and that a Road was wanted in and through the Huron Reserve to connect the Communication between the Township of Sandwich and the said Garrison. We did on the tenth day of August in the year one thousand seven hundred and ninety-nine, offer as a gift to the said Captain Thomas McKee, for and on behalf of His said Majesty, as follows, that is to say, an additional space of five hundred yards, extending up the stream from a painted Tree, which was the former boundary; And also a space of sixty feet wide for a road of communication as aforesaid, to be laid out in such parts of the said Huron Reserve, as shall or may be thought most convenient by any person or persons acting under the authority of His Majesty's Government: And we having been informed by the said Capt. Thomas McKee that His Excellency the Commander in Chief has directed him to accept in the name of His Majesty, the said lands a Gift from us, Now know ye, That we, the principal Chiefs of the Ottawa, Chippewa, Powtawatamie and Wyandot Nations of Indians in consideration of our good will and affection for our Great Father, His said Majesty, Kig George the Third, Have given, granted and confirmed, and by these presents Do give, grant and confirm, as a free and voluntary Gift to the said Captain Thomas McKee, for and on behalf of His said Majesty, His Heirs and Successors for ever, the said space of Five Hundred yards extending up the stream from a Painted Tree, which was the former Boundary, Thence East the whole depth of said Huron Reserve, and from thence south until it intersects the East line of the said former boundary as is more particularly described by a sketch thereof also hereunto annexed marked H. R. red; And also the space of Sixty feet wide in through the said Huron Reserve for the purpose of a Road to be laid out in such parts of the same lying between the said Garrison of Amherstburg and the Township of Sandwich, as shall or may be thought most convenient by any person or persons acting under the authority of His said Majesty's Government, the whole of the two parcels of Tracts of Land last mentioned, containing Thirteen Hundred and Eighty acres or thereabouts, be the same more or less, To Have and to Hold all the said several parcels or Tracts of Land together with all the woods and waters thereon unto the said captain Thomas Mckee for and on behalf of His said Britannic Majesty King George the Third, His Heirs and Successors for ever, free and clear of and from all claims, rights, privileges and emoluments which we the said Chiefs, Warriors and people of the Ottawa, Chippewa, Powtawatamie and Wyandot Nations might have before the execution of these presents, And free and clear of any pretended claims which our children or Descendants may hereafter make to the same, hereby renouncing and forever divesting ourselves, our children, Descendants and Posterity of all Title to the said several parcels or Tracts of Land and the soil, woods and waters thereof, in favour of the said Captain Thomas McKee for and on behalf of His said Britannic Majesty His Heirs and Successors forever.

IN WITNESS WHEROF, we have for ourselves and the rest of our Nations respectively set our marks and seals this Eleventh Day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand and Eight Hundred, having first heard this instrument interpreted openly in our several languages, and fully approved by ourselves and our respective nations.

Witnesses present at the execution of this instrument:

F. BABY,}
ALEX. DUFF,} Commissioners for the Province of Upper Canada.
H. MCLEAN, Capt. R.C.V. Commanding
ALEX. MCMILLAN, Capt. R.C.V.
L. R. C. DE LERY, Capt. R.C.B
WM. BACHWELL, Lt. R. Engineers.
JOHN SUTH'D SINCLAIR, Lt. R. Artillery.
J. I. DUCHESNOY, Lieut. R.C.V.
ROB'T WOOLSEY, Ensign R.C. Vols.,
STEPHEN MCVAY, Ensign R.C.V.,
GEO. IRONSIDE, Lt. K. & Clk. I. Dept.,
SIMON X GIRTY'S, mark.
T. ALEXANDER CLARKE,
CHARLEVEAUME.
JOHN MARTIN.

T. MCKEE S.I.A., for and on behalf of His Majesty (totem) [L.S.]

WITANIS, (totem) [L.S.]
GAIASH, (totem) [L.S.]
PSHIKIE, (totem) [L.S.]
NAKATEWAQUIT, (totem) [L.S.]
NANGY, (totem) [L.S.]
USTAIECHTA, or ROUND HEAD (totem) [L.S.]
RUHUMATT, or ONE CAN'E (totem) [L.S.]
UREAUPOWANNIE, or GREAT BATT (totem) [L.S.]
SAHENTESKON, (totem) [L.S.]
DÉSHAREMOI, (totem) [L.S.]
ESHKIBIE, (totem) [L.S.]
NASHAN, (totem) [L.S.]
WAGINAI, (totem) [L.S.]
KAGÉ KUMEGO, or OTTER (totem) [L.S.]
WISHAWAS, (totem) [L.S.]
KIEVEJIWEN, (totem) [L.S.]
KAGESKAIVA, (totem) [L.S.]
PISORTIM, or TURNER (totem) [L.S.]
TOQUISH, (totem) [L.S.]