UPPER CANADA

To all to whom these presents may come, – GREETING:

Whereas we the Principal Chiefs, Warriors and people of the Chippawa Nation of Indians being desirous for a certain consideration hereafter shewn of selling and disposing of a certain parcel or tract of land lying on and near to the river called Chenail Ecarté unto His Britannic Majesty King George the Third, our Great Father. Now know ye, that we the said Principal Chiefs, Warriors and people of the Chippawa Nation for and in consideration of the sum of eight hundred pounds Quebec currency value in goods estimated according to the Montreal price now delivered to us, the receipt whereof we hereby acknowledge, have given, granted, sold, disposed of and confirmed and by these presents do give, grant, sell, dispose of and confirm for ever unto Alexander McKee, Esquire, Deputy Superintendent General and Deputy Inspector General of Indians and of their affairs, for and on behalf of His said Britannic Majesty King George the Third, His heirs and successors , all that parcel of tract of land lying on and near to the said River Chenail Ecarté, which river is known in the Indian names as follows (that is to say) from the River St. Clair to the first fork on the south side Pakeitchewanse and from the said fork on the north side Wapissejunkissycawpowa, beginning at the said first fork where the Ottawa Village now stands and where the east line of the lands purchased of us and other Indian Nations by the Crown in the year one thousand seven hundred and ninety commences and following the several winding of the said river up the stream to the River St. Clair; thence up the said River St. Clair following the several windings thereof to a hickory tree marked with a broad arrow, fifty links above a small run being twelve miles and a half on a direct north course from the said fork; thence east nine hundred and twenty three Gunter's chains; thence south until it intersects the east line of the said land purchased as aforesaid, in the year one thousand seven hundred and ninety; thence west following the said east line to the said fork, being the place of beginning.

To have and to hold the said parcel of tract of land, together with all the woods and waters thereon situate, lying and being unto the said Alexander McKee, Esquire, for and on behalf of His said Britannic Majesty, King George the Third, His heirs and successors forever, free and clear of and fro all claims, rights, privileges and emoluments which we the said Chiefs, Warriors and people of the Chippawa Nation might have before the execution of these presents, and free and clear of any pretended claims which our children or descendants may hereafter make to the same, hereby renouncing and forever absolving ourselves, our children, descendants, and thereof, in favour of the said Alexander McKee, Esquire, for and on behalf of His said Britannic Majesty, His heirs and successors forever. In witness whereof we have for ourselves and the rest of our Nation hereunto set our marks and seals this third and in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and ninety-six, having first heard this Instrument openly read and rehearsed in our own language and fully approved by ourselves and our Nation.

Present at the execution and delivery of this instrument, and witnesses thereto:

RICHD. POLLARD,} Coms. on behalf of the Prov. Of Upper Canada.
THOS, SMITH,} Coms. on behalf of the Prov. Of Upper Canada.
T. MCKEE, Supt. N.W.D.
A. IREDELL, D.S.W.D.
JOHN MARTIN,
G. SELBY, A.S.I.A
CHARLEVEAUME,
NICOLA LASILLE, his
JAQUE X PELTIER, mark.} Interpreters.

Indian Witnesses :

SHEMMENDOCK, Chief of the Ottawas (totem).
NEGIG, Chief of the Ottawas (totem).
MITCHEWAS, Chief of the Ottawas (totem).

A. MCKEE D.S.G.D.I.G.I.A, on behalf of His Majesty.

NEGIG, (totem) [L.S.]
WAPENOUSA, (totem) [L.S.]
KITCHEMUGHQUA, (totem) [L.S.]
NAWACISSYNABE, (totem) [L.S.]
TICOMEGASSON, (totem) [L.S.]
KIASHKE, (totem) [L.S.]
WASSON, (totem) [L.S.]
WITTANESS, (totem) [L.S.]
PEYSHIKY, (totem) [L.S.]
ANNAMAKANCE, (totem) [L.S.]
MACOUNCE, (totem) [L.S.]
NANGEE, (totem) [L.S.]
CAMCOMMENANIN, (totem) [L.S.]