Mistawasis, Carlton Agency, October 14, 1907.

Frank Pedley, Esq.

Deputy Supt. General of Indian Affairs,
Ottawa.

SIR, --- I have the honour to submit my report upon the payments of their annuities to those of the Indians of Treaty No. 10 who were treated with last year, and also transmit herewith the treaty, which, under the authority that devolved upon me by the commission issued to me on the 6th day of April, 1907, I concluded with the Chipewyan Indians living in the region of Lac du Brochet and Lac la Hache, and in the part of the district of Keewatin adjoining the northeast corner of the province of Saskatchewan.

With the view of keeping appointments for the payments of their annuities to the Indians who were treated with last year at Isle à la Crosse, I proceeded from here on June 11, and after travelling over some very bad road, I arrived at Green Lake on the afternoon of the 15th, and got to Isle à la Crosse at noon of Saturday, June 22, one day behind the date that was fixed for my arrival there. Very unfavourable weather was the cause of delay. Only the Canoe Lake band of Indians had so far assembled there to meet me; and I at once had an interview with the chief and headmen of that band, and it being Saturday, they asked that the paying of their annuities be postponed until Monday, the 24th. To that request I conceded, and accordingly they were paid on that and the following day. The Indians of English River and Clear Lake bands not having then arrived, I began taking evidence in connection with claims for scrip preferred by a number of half-breeds from Souris River who did not have a chance of meeting the commissioner of last year at Isle à la Crosse. The evidence adduced by these applicants for scrip was continued up to the 29th, when the English River and Clear Lake bands having fully arrived, were paid their annuities. The 1st of July, being Dominion Day, was, at the request of the half-breeds and Indians, observed as a holiday, and they celebrated it with great enthusiasm; the members of the commission and other gentlemen present heartily joining them and making their sports pecuniarily interesting for them.

Further dealings with the Indians and half-breeds occupied the time of the commission up to July 3, when, upon being informed that a considerable number of half-breeds and Indians were assembled at the Roman Catholic mission near Portage la Loche and expecting me there, I proceeded to that place, and after a very trying trip with rains and stormy weather, I reached there late on the evening of July 9, and owing to the number of half-breeds who had to be dealt with here, and the very inclement weather prevailing, it took up to the 14th to get through with the work. In addition to the half-breeds assembled here, I found a number of families of Indians from Whitefish Lake, who asked very earnestly that I should pay them their annuities. I explained to them that I could not do that, as it was inconsistent with the rules of the department to pay Indians of a certain treaty by the agent of another treaty. They pointed out that it was a great hardship for them to be compelled to travel over a hundred miles through a difficult section of the country going to Fort McMurray, which took them five or six days to get there and the same number of days returning to their homes. Before leaving the mission, they handed me a petition praying that they be paid next year at Buffalo River on Buffalo Lake, to which point they can come in less than two days from Whitefish Lake.

On Monday morning, July 15, I left the mission on the return trip to Isle à la Crosse, and after an unusually favourable trip I arrived there on the 17th. Here I was detained for five days to procure tripmen to go on to Stanley, for which place I started on the morning of July 23 and arrived there on the evening of August 1. Here I met some fifty heads of families of the Lac la Ronge Indians, headed by their chief, Amos Charles, and two of their headmen, who asked that they be paid their annuities there, as many of them spent the summer and autumn on the Churchill river, and in compliance with their request they were paid on the 2nd and 3rd; the 5th and 6th were occupied taking evidence of applicants for scrip and procuring tripmen for the Lac du Brochet trip. On the morning of August 7 I left Stanley for the Hudson's Bay Company's post on the north end of Lac du Brochet, and after a successful trip reached that place on the 17th idem.

Owing to the amount of work which devolved upon the commission that was not anticipated, it was made impossible for me to reach this place, which was the stated point of rendezvous with the Indians, on the date that they were notified I was to be there to meet them; and consequently they were detained for ten days awaiting my arrival, and which led to their running out of provisions, they being all assembled with their families, and finding that they were reduced to such a state, I felt that it was proper for me to relieve their immediate necessities, and accordingly I supplied them with a limited quantity of provisions, for which they appeared to feel very thankful. I consider it proper that I should mention here that considerable help was afforded these Indians whilst waiting my arrival by Mr. A. McDermot, the Hudson's Bay Company's agent at this place, by giving them some light work to do and paying them for it in provisions, and likewise by the agent of the Revillon Bros.

On the morning of August 19 I held council with the combined Indians of the Barren Land and the Indians of Lac la Hache, the Rev. Father Turquetil acting as interpreter, which he did on all subsequent occasions during my transactions with the Indians here, the Chipewyan language being spoken. I explained to them why I was sent to meet them, and after various thoughtful questions put by the Indians bearing upon the treaty and answered by me to their satisfaction, they asked for a short recess to discuss the terms of the treaty more fully among themselves; which was granted them. At 2 p.m. they reassembled and the Barren Land band announced that they had elected their chief and two headmen, and were prepared to accept the terms of the treaty. The Lac la Hache band intimated that some of their people were away, but would be back in a day or so, and that they would like to have their concurrence in the matter of selecting their chief and councillors; I consented to their waiting a day or so, if necessary, in order to obtain the full consent of their band to their transactions. The chief and headmen of the Barren Land band then formally signed the treaty, and without further undue delay the payments of their gratuities and annuities were begun to them, and were got through with at noon on the 21st. The number of Indians treated with in this band was 232, including:

1 chief	32,00 $
2 headmen at $22	44,00 $
229 other Indians at $12	2 748,00 $
 	2 284,00 $
The Lac la Hache band assembled on the 22nd, and after the terms of the treaty were read over to them for the second time and thoroughly explained in their own language, they presented their elected chief and two headmen, who then in due form signed the treaty, and the members of the band were paid in accordance with the terms of the treaty. The number of Indians paid in this band was 97, including:

1 chief	$32.00
2 headmen at $22	$44.00
229 other Indians at $12	$2,748.00
 	$2,284.00
1 chief	$32.00
2 headmen	$44.00
94 other Indians at $12	$1,128.00
 	$1,204.00

This practically finished the Indian work at this point, and after a number of half-breed s'applications for scrip were received, I left this place on August 24 for Lac la Ronge, via Stanley, and on September 3, after a very unusually expeditious trip, I arrived at the paying ground at Lac la Ronge; and on the 4th and 5th paid the rest of the James Roberts band some 60 odd heads of families who were not paid at Stanley.

After taking the evidence of a number of half-breed applicants for scrip at this place, and holding council meetings with the Indians in connection with the surrender of their reserve, No. 106A, &c., I left on the 11th for Montreal Lake, and arrived there on the 16th, and the following day paid their annuities to the Indians of this place, the William Charles' band.

On the 18th I held meetings with the chief and headmen of the James Roberts' band, who accompanied me to this place, and with that of the Wm. Charles' band combined, bearing upon the surrender of their reserve, No. 106A, when after due deliberation, they unanimously agreed to relinquish the reserve to the government upon the terms set forth in an agreement signed by them on the 18th day of September, 1907; which agreement was transmitted to the Deputy Minister of Indian Affairs on the 8th instant.

On the afternoon of the 18th of September, the commission party left Montreal lake with canoes for the landing on Red Deer lake, where they arrived on the 21st, after being detained one day en route with stress of weather. At the landing teams were taken to this place (Mistawasis) where we arrived on the evening of September 24, ultimo; this completing an arduous trip of over 2,000 miles by water, in canoes, and 300 miles by land, which I have pleasure to say was performed successfully and without accident.

Concerning my staff, I am pleased to state that I was excellently equipped, and that, in general, a fine spirit existed amongst its members; of some of them I cannot speak too highly. Dr. H. A. Stewart proved himself ideally fitted for his post. Full of the kindest sympathy for the sick, he was untiring in his labours on their behalf; a skilful physician, he was most successful in his efforts to relieve their suffering, and won golden opinions from all who required his services. W. J. McLean, the senior secretary, displayed special ability in the performance of the onerous duties of his position, his previous experience in treaty payments standing him in good stead; while his knowledge of the French language, his long residence as a chief factor of the Hudson's Bay Company, in the part of the country traversed, and his personal acquaintance with many of the applicants, materially contributed to the success of my commission.

Of the rest it would be invidious to make personal mention, suffice to say that each performed his duties with energy and intelligence, sacrificing rest and comfort, and facing danger in the effort to cover distances with the least possible loss of time.

I have the honour to be, sir
Your obedient servant,
THOS. A. BORTHWICK,

Commissioner, Treaty No. 10.