On a Memorandum dated 29th October, 1874 from the Hon. Mr. Mackenzie submitting for the consideration of Your Excellency in Council Copies of a Treaty and supplementary Treaty with the Cree, Saulteaux and other Indians inhabiting the Territory affected by such Treaty, the former concluded on the 15th September last, and the latter on the 21st September last, by His Honor the Lieutenant Governor of the North West Territories, the Hon. the Minister of the Interior, and W. J. Christie, Esquire, of Brockville, Ont., the Commissioners specially appointed for that purpose, under Orders in Council dated 23rd July and 26th August respectively.

Mr. Mackenzie states that the Territory covered by the Treaties may be approximately described as lying between the Western boundary of Treaty No.2 and the 1101/2 degree of West Longitude, and bounded on the South by the International Boundary, and on the North by the Red Deer River, and its Lakes, Red Deer and Etoimami, to the source of its Western Branch thence in a straight line to the source of the Northern Branch of the Qu'Appelle, thence along and including said stream to the Forks near Long Lake; thence along and including the Valley of the West Branch of the Qu'Appelle to the South Saskatchewan, thence along and including said River to the mouth of Maple Creek, thence along said Creek, to a point opposite the Cypress Hills, thence due South to the Boundary Line, and that the Area of the Territory above described comprises about 50,000 Square Miles.

That the terms of the Treaties are nearly identical with those of the Treaty concluded last year at the North West Angle of the Lake of the Woods.

That the principal conditions of the Treaties may be briefly stated as follows:

1st A Money present to each Chief of $25; to each Headman not exceeding four in each Band $15 and to every other Indian, man, woman and Child in the Band $12.
2nd An Annual payment in perpetuity, of the same sums to the Chiefs and Headmen (not exceeding four in each Band) and $5 to every other man, woman and Child in the Band.
3rd Certain trifling presents of clothing every third year, to the Chiefs and Headmen.
4th A supply of Ammunition and twine every year to the value of $750.
5th Presents of Agricultural implements, Cattle, grain, Carpenter's tools, etc., proportioned to the number of families in the Band actually engaged in farming.
6th Reserves to be selected of the same extent in proportion to the numbers of the Bands, and on the same conditions as in the previous Treaty.
7th Schools to be established on each Reserve as soon as the Indians settle thereon.
8th Intoxicating liquors to be excluded from the Reserve.
Mr. Mackenzie states that the Treaties appear to him to be satisfactory and he therefore recommends that they be approved by Your Excellency in Council.

He further submits that he is of opinion that the satisfactory conclusion of the Treaties is mainly due to patience, firmness, tact and ability displayed by the Commissioners in the conduct of the negotiations.

The Committee concur in the foregoing Report and recommend and advise that the Treaties be approved and accepted and be enrolled in the usual manner.

signed by: A. Mackenzie.
Approved
4th November 1876
Dufferin.