On a Memorandum, dated 20th July 1874, from the Honorable the Minister of the Interior, stating that he has had before him a Minute of the Council of the North West of the 14th March last, recommending that Treaties should this year be concluded with the Tribes of Indians inhabiting the Territory therein indicated, lying West of the Boundary of Treaty No. 2, and between the International Boundary Line and the Saskatchewan.

That he has also had before him several Despatches from the Lieutenant Governor of later date urging the necessity of these Treaties.

That looking to these representations and to the fact that the Mounted Police Force is now moving into the Territory in question with a view of taking up their winter quarters at Fort Pelly, and considering the operations of the Boundary Commission which are continually moving westward into the Indian Country, and also the steps which are being taken in connection with the proposed Telegraph Line from Fort Garry westward, all which proceedings are calculated to further unsettle and excite the Indian mind, already in a disturbed condition; he recommends that three Commissioners be appointed by His Excellency the Governor General for the purpose of making Treaties during the current year with such of the Indians Bands as they may find it expedient to deal with, inhabiting the portion of the North West Territories which may be approximately described as lying between the Westerly Boundary of Treaty No. 2 and the 110th degree of West Longitude, and bounded on the South by the International Boundary Line, and on the North by Lake Winnipeg, and by the Saskatchewan River, including a strip of country ten miles north of that River to the Forks and thence following the South branch of the said River until it meets the 110th degree of West Longitude.

The Minister further recommends that the Commissioners to be appointed for this purpose be instructed to confer with the Lieutenant Governor of the North West Territories on the subject of the Treaties, and that, in the event of permanent annuities being granted to the Tribes with whom Treaties may be made, such annuities should not be fixed at a higher rate than those sanctioned by the Treaties already concluded with the Indians of the North West.

The Committee submit the above recommendation for Your Excellency's approval.

(sgd.) L. S. HUNTINGDON.
Approved
23 July, 1874
Dufferin