ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT AND ADHESION TO A TREATY made and concluded at Beren's River the 20th day of September, and at Norway House the 24th day of September, in the year of Our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventy-five between Her Most Gracious Majesty the Queen of Great Britain and Ireland, by Her Commissioners, the Honourable Alexander Morris, Lieutenant-Governor of the Province of Manitoba and the North-west Territories, and the Honourable James McKay, of the one part, and the Saulteaux and Swampy Cree Tribes of Indians, inhabitants of the country within the limits hereinafter defined and described, by their Chiefs, chosen and named as hereinafter mentioned, of the other part.

We, the Band of Saulteaux Indians residing in the vicinity of the Grand Rapids of the Beren's River, having had communication of the aforesaid treaty, of which a true copy is hereunto annexed, hereby and in consideration of the provisions of the said treaty being extended to us, transfer, surrender and relinquish to Her Majesty the Queen, Her heirs and successors, to and for the use of the Government of Canada, all our rights, titles and privileges whatsoever, which we have or enjoy in the territory described in the said treaty, and every part thereof, to have and to hold to the use of Her Majesty the Queen, and Her heirs and successors forever.

And Her Majesty agrees, through Her representatives as hereinafter named to assign a reserve of sufficient area to allow one hundred and sixty acres to each family of five, or in that proportion for larger or smaller families, such reserve to be laid off and surveyed as soon as may be found practicable, at or near the Sandy Narrows of the Beren's River, on both sides of the said river, reserving the free navigation of the said river, and free access to the shores thereof, to all Her Majesty's subjects.

And the said Indians, represented herein by their Chief and Councillor, presented as such by the Band, do hereby agree to accept the several provisions, payments and other benefits, as stated in the said treaty, and solemnly promise and engage to abide by, carry out and fulfil all the stipulations, obligations and conditions therein contained, on the part of the said Chief and Indians therein named, to be observed and performed, and in all things to conform to the articles of the said treaty, as if we ourselves had been originally contracting parties thereto.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Honourable Thomas Howard, and John Lestock Reid, Esquire, acting herein for Her Majesty, under special authority of the Honourable Alexander Morris, Lieutenant-Governor of Manitoba and the North-west Territories, and Chief Superintendent of Indian Affairs for the Manitoba Superintendency, and the said Chief and Councillor, have hereunto subscribed and set their hands at the Beren's River, this fourth day of August, A.D. 1876.

Signed by the Chief and Councillor within named in the presence of the following witnesses, the treaty and this adhesion having been first read and explained by the Rev. H. Cochrane
HENRY COCHRANE, Missionary
JAMES FLETT,
OWEN HUGHES,
ALEXANDER BEGG,
A. M. MUCKLE, J.P.,
GEO. COLDEE,
THOMAS PRATT,
WILLIAM McKAY,
THOMAS NIXON, Jr.THOS. HOWARD, [L.S.]
J. LESTOCK REID, [L.S.]
NAH-WEE-KEE-SICK-QUAH-YASH
(Or JACOB BERENS, of Beren's River),
his x mark
Chief,
NUN-AK-OW-AH-NUK-WAPE,
his x mark
Councillor.