ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT AND ADHESION TO A TREATY made and concluded at Beren's River the 20th day of September, and at Norway House the 24th day of September, in the year of Our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventy five, between Her Most Gracious Majesty the Queen of Great Britain and Ireland, by Her Commissioners, the Honourable Alexander Morris, Lieutenant-Governor of the Province of Manitoba and the North-west Territories, and the Honourable James McKay, of the one part, and the Saulteaux and Swampy Cree Tribes of Indians, inhabitants of the country within the limits hereinafter defined and described, by their Chiefs, chosen and named as hereinafter mentioned, of the other part:

We, the Band of Saulteaux Indians residing at or near the Big Island and the other islands in Lake Winnipeg, and also on the shores thereof, having had communication of the aforesaid treaty, of which a true copy is hereunto annexed, hereby, and in consideration of the provisions of the said treaty being extended to us, transfer, surrender, and relinquish to Her Majesty the Queen, Her heirs and successors, to and for the use of the Government of Canada, all our right, title and privileges whatsoever, which we have or enjoy in the territory described in the said treaty, and every part thereof, to have and to hold to the use of Her Majesty the Queen, and Her heirs and successors forever.

And Her Majesty agrees, through Her representatives as hereinafter named, to assign reserves of sufficient area to allow one hundred and sixty acres to each family of five, or in that proportion for larger or smaller families, such reserves to be selected for said Indians by a Dominion Land Surveyor, or other officer named for that purpose, with the approval of the said Indians, as soon as practicable.

And the said Indians, represented herein by their Chief and Councillors, presented as such by the Band, do hereby agree to accept the several provisions, payments and other benefits as stated in the said treaty, and solemnly promise and engage to abide by, carry out and fulfil all the stipulations, obligations and conditions therein contained, on the part of the said Chief and Indians therein named, to be observed and performed, and in all things to conform to the articles of the said treaty, as if we ourselves had been originally contracting parties thereto.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Honourable Thomas Howard, and John Lestock Reid, Esquire, acting herein for Her Majesty, under special authority of the Honourable Alexander Morris, Lieutenant-Governor of Manitoba and of the North-west Territories, and Chief Superintendent of Indian Affairs for the Manitoba Superintendency, and the said Chief and Councillors, have hereunto subscribed and set their hands, at Wapang, or Dog Head, Lake Winnipeg, this twenty-six day of July, A.D. 1876.

Signed by the Chief and Councillors within named in the presence of the following witnesses, treaty and this adhesion having been first read and explained by the Rev. Henry Cochrane:
W. W. KIRBY, Archdeacon of York,
HENRY COCHRANE, Missionary,
ALEXANDER BEGG,
WILLIAM LEACK,
THOMAS NIXON, Jr.,
A. M. MUCKLE, J.P.THOS. HOWARD, [L.S.]
J. LESTOCK REID, [L.S.]
SA-KA-CHE-WAYAS, Chief, (Blood Vein River.)
his x mark
KA-TUK-E-PIN-AIS or HARDISTY, (Big Island.)
his x mark
THICKFOOT, (Dog Head.)
his x mark
SANG-GWA-WA- KA-POW, or JAMES SINCLAIR, (Jack Head),
his x mark
Councillors.
I, the Honourable Alexander Morris, Lieutenant-Governor of Manitoba and the North-west Territories, do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of the treaty of which it purports to be a copy.

Given under my hand and seal at Fort Garry, this nineteenth day of July, A.D. 1876.

ALEXANDER MORRIS, L.G. [L.S.]