Memorandum.

The Queen's Indian Commissioners having met Thick-foot and a portion of the Island Band of Indians at Wa-pang or Dog-head Island on the 28th day of September, A.D. 1875, request him to notify the Island Indians and those of Jack-head Point to meet at Wa-pang an Indian Agent next summer to receive payments under the treaty which they have made with the Indians of Norway House, Beren's River, Grand Rapids and Lake Winnipeg, and in which they are included, at a time of which they will be notified, and to be prepared then to designate their Chief and two Councillors. The Commissioners have agreed to give some of the "Norway House" Indians a reserve at Fisher Creek, and they will give land to the Island Indians at the same place.

Given at Wa-pang this 28th day of September, A.D. 1875, under our hands.

ALEX. MORRIS, L.G.

JAMES McKAY.

I accept payments under the treaty for myself and those who may adhere to me, and accept the same and all its provisions as a Principal Indian, and agree to notify the Indians as above written.

WaA-Pang, September 28th, 1875.

Witness:
Thos. Howard,
Rodk. Ross.

Thick-Foot
his x mark

Adhesion by Saulteaux or Chippewa Indians
We, the Band of Saulteaux Tribe of Indians residing at the mouth of Black River, on the east shore of Lake Winnipeg, having had communication of the treaty made and concluded at Beren's River the 20th day of September, 1875, between Her Most Gracious Majesty the Queen, by Her Commissioners the Honourable Alexander Morris, Lieutenant-Governor of the Province of Manitoba and the Northwest Territories, and the Honourable James McKay, and the different tribes of Indians and inhabitants of the country within the limits mentioned in the said treaty, hereby, and in consideration of the provisions of the said treaty being extended to us, transfer, surrender and relinquish to Her Majesty the Queen, Her heirs and successors, to and for the use of the Government of Canada, all our rights, titles and privileges whatsoever which we may have or enjoy in the territory descript in the said treaty, and every part thereof-and to hold to the use of Her Majesty the Queen, and heirs and successors forever. And Her Majesty agrees through the Acting Indian Superintendent, to assign the reserve of sufficient area to allow one hundred and sixty acres to each family of five, or in that proportion for smaller or larger families, on the banks of the said Black River.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the said Acting Indian Superintendent and the said Indians, represented by their Chief and Councillors, have hereunto subscript and set their hands at Winnipeg, the seventh day of September, in the year of Our Lord one thousand eight hundred seventy-six.

Witness:
J. A. N. PROVENCHER,
JAS. F. GRAHAM,
H. MARTINEAU,
J. P. WRIGHT,JAMES BIRD,
his x mark
JOSEPH SAYER,
his x mark
JOHN SAYER.
his x mark