We the undersigned Chiefs and Headmen, on behalf of ourselves and the other members of the Wood Cree Tribe of Indians, having had explained to us the terms of the treaty made and concluded near Carlton, on the 23rd day of August and on 28th day of said month respectively, and near Fort Pitt on the 9th day of September, 1876, between Her Majesty the Queen, by the Commissioners duly appointed to negotiate the said treaty, and the Plain and Wood Cree and other Tribes of Indians inhabiting the country within the limits defined in said treaty, but not having been present at the councils at which the articles of the said treaty were agreed upon, do now hereby for ourselves and the Bands which we represent, in consideration of the provisions of the said treaty being extended to us and the Bands which we represent, transfer, surrender, and relinquish to Her Majesty the Queen, Her heirs and successors, to and for the use of the Government of the Dominion of Canada, all our right, title and interest whatsoever which we and the said Bands which we represent hold and enjoy, or have held and enjoyed, of, in and to the territory included within the following limits: All and singular that portion or tract of land being the north part of the Land District of Prince Albert, as shown on the maps published by the Honourable the Minister of the Interior, dated at Ottawa on the 31st day of August, 1885; the same tract being north of the northerly limit of Treaty No.6, North-West Territory, containing 11,066 square miles, be the same more or less, and more particularly described as follows: Commencing at a point being the north-west corner of projected Township No. 70, Range 10, west of the Third Initial Meridian; thence easterly along the northern boundaries of projected Townships Nos. 70 to the north-east corner of projected Township No. 70, Range 13, west of the Second Initial Meridian; thence southerly following the east boundary of said 13th Range of projected Townships to the northern limits of Treaty No. 6. into the projected Township No. 60; thence westerly following the northerly limit of Treaty No. 6 to the south-eastern shore of Green Lake, being at the north-easterly part of projected Township No. 58, Range 10, west of the Third Initial Meridian; thence following the westerly shore of Green Lake to the main inlet thereof known as Beaver River; thence up the right bank of Beaver River to its intersection with the west boundary of projected Township No. 62, Range 10, west of the Third Initial Meridian; thence northerly following the west boundary of projected townships of Range 10, west of the Third Initial Meridian, to the point of commencement.

Also, all our right, title and interest whatsoever to all other lands wherever situated, whether within the limits of any other treaty heretofore made, or hereafter to be made with Indians, and whether the said lands are situated in the North-West Territories of elsewhere in Her Majesty's Dominion, to have and to hold the same unto and for the use of Her Majesty the Queen, Her heirs and successors forever.

And we hereby agree to accept the several benefits, payments and reserves promised to the Indians adhering to the said treaty at Fort Pitt or Carlton; with the proviso as regards the amount to be expended annually for ammunition and twine, and as respects the amount to be expended for three years annually in provisions for the use of such Indians as are settled on reserves and are engaged in cultivating the soil, to assist them in such cultivation, that the expenditure on both of these items shall bear the same proportion to the number of Indians now treated with as the amounts for those two items as mentioned in Treaty No. 6 bore to the number of Indians then treated with. And we solemnly engage to abide by, carry out and fulfil all the stipulations, obligations and conditions therein contained on the part of the Chiefs and Indians therein named to be observed and performed, and we agree in all things to conform to the articles of the said treaty, as if we ourselves and the Bands which we represent had been originally contracting parties thereto and had been present at the council held near Fort Pitt or near Carlton and had there attached our signatures to the said treaty.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Her Majesty's special Commissioners and the Chiefs and Councillors of the Bands hereby giving their adhesion to the said treaty have hereunto subscribed and set their hands at Montreal Lake this eleventh day of February, in the year of Our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighty-nine.