DEPARTMENT OF INDIAN AFFAIRS,

OTTAWA, December 11, 1900.

The Honourable
The Superintendent General of Indian Affairs,
Ottawa.

SIR, --- I beg to report having, in pursuance of the commissions entrusted to me by you, visited the territory covered by Treaty No. 8, and all the posts from Fort St. John, on the Upper Peace River in the west, to Fort Resolution on Great Slave lake in the north. During that visit, acting as your commissioner for the purpose, formal adhesions to treaty were taken from certain Indian inhabitants of the ceded territory belonging to eight bands who were not treated with last year, annuities were paid to all treaty Indians, and business of a general character was transacted with and for them; acting as a commissioner to receive and hear half-breed claims, over three hundred and fifty cases were dealt with; and acting magisterially as a commissioner of Dominion police and a justice of the peace for the Territories, nineteen cases of crime and misdemeanour were disposed of. Separate reports touching upon half-breed claims, public order and minor Indian matters are being submitted.

My commission to take adhesions to Treaty Eight was designed to enable me to treat with the Indians of Fort St. John in the Upper Peace river, and the various bands on Great Slave lake that trade at Fort Resolution, to the end of bringing them into treaty relations with Her Majesty's government.

There came to meet me, however, in addition to these, two bands of Indians, undoubted inhabitants of the tract covered by Treaty No. 8, with whom I was not empowered to deal, one of Crees from Sturgeon lake and one of Slaves from the Upper Hay river. Both of these desired to enter into treaty, and it became necessary to decide whether they, after having come from distant points to meet one whom they looked upon as a representative of the government, were to be dismissed non-plussed and dissatisfied, or to be allowed to give in their adhesions. It being impossible to communicate with the department, and as the title of these people to the benefits of the treaty was beyond question, the conclusion was unhesitatingly adopted that it was my duty to assume responsibility and concede those benefits to them. The instruments embodying their adhesions are submitted herewith together with those I was empowered to take, which contain the adhesions of certain of the Indians of Fort St. John and the whole of those of Fort Resolution on Great Slave lake, whose hunting grounds lie within treaty limits. It is hoped that you will approve this assumption of responsibility, and that the sanction of His Excellency in Council will be extended to all the adhesions.

Last year 2,217 Indians were paid. This year 3,323 claimed the annuity, an increase of 1,106, or almost fifty per cent. Of this increased number 248 belong to or have now joined, bands treated with in 1899, and 858 to the following bands which remained undealt with in that year, namely, Crees of Sturgeon lake; Beavers of Fort St. John; Slaves of Upper Hay river, who trade at Vermilion; and the Dogribs, Yellowknives, Chipewyans and Slaves of Lower Hay river, who trade at Fort Resolution. Some Caribooeaters, belonging to the country east of Smith's Landing on Great Slave river, also came into treaty, but they were incorporated with the Chipewyan band of Smith's Landing, being allied thereto. Six new chiefs were recognized.

As was reported by your commissioners last year, there is little disposition on the part of most of the northern Indians to settle down upon land or to ask to have reserves set apart. Dealing, under your instructions, with demands for land, two small provisional reserves were laid out at Lesser Slave Lake for Kinosayo's band, and fifteen or sixteen applications were registered for land in severalty by Indians who have already, to some extent, taken to agriculture.

It appears that this disinclination to adopt agriculture as a means of livelihood is not unwisely entertained, for the more congenial occupations of hunting and fishing are still open, and agriculture is not only arduous to those untrained to it, but in many districts it as yet remains untried. A consequence of this preference of old pursuits is that the government will not be called upon for years to make those expenditures which are entailed by the treaty when the Indians take to the soil for subsistence.

The health of the Indians in the district seems to vary with the times. When game is plentiful it is good; when scarce, it is bad. The want of rabbits along the Peace and Hay rivers caused suffering to the Beavers and Slaves in part of the western portion of the territory last winter; but, in the eastern portion, the Chipewyans were unusually well off, caribou being plentiful. At Fond du Lac, it was said, there was less disease than for many years. No such loss of life from starvation as has often characterized northern winters was reported, and the measures for relieving sick and destitute Indians planned by the commissioners last year, operated well and alleviated distress in many deserving cases. Dr. Edwards, who accompanied me, gave advice and dispensed medicine to a large number of Indians and vaccinated many. Great appreciation of his services was manifested.

At nearly all the important points the chiefs and more intelligent men who were present at the making of treaty last year, asked for extended explanations of its terms, in order that those of their bands who had failed to grasp its true meaning might be enlightened, and that those who were coming into treaty for the first time might fully understand what they were doing. In the course of the councils held for this purpose, it was possible to eradicate any little misunderstanding that had arisen in the minds of the more intelligent, and great pains were taken to give such explanations as seemed most likely to prevent any possibility of misunderstandings in future.

Each of the many appointments made was punctually kept, a fact which appeared to give great satisfaction to both the traders and the Indians.

Appended is a summary of the bands paid, showing the admissions to treaty permitted this year.

There yet remains a number of persons leading an Indian life in the country north of Lesser Slave lake, who have not accepted treaty as Indians, or scrip as half-breeds, but this is not so much through indisposition to do so as because they live at points distant from those visited, and are not pressed by want. The Indians of all parts of the territory who have not yet been paid annuity probably number about 500 exclusive of those in the extreme northwestern portion, but as most, if not all, of this number belong to bands that have already joined in the treaty, the Indian title to the tract it covers may be fairly regarded as being extinguished.

Most respectfully submitting this report,
I have, &c.,
J. A. MACRAE,
Commissioner.

Documents accompanying this report:
No. 1. Adhesion of Sturgeon Lake band.
No. 2. Adhesion of part of the Beavers of Fort St. John.
No. 3. Adhesion of Slaves of Upper Hay River.
No. 4. Adhesion of Dogribs of Great Slave Lake.
Chipewyans of Great Slave Lake.
Yellowknives of Great Slave Lake.
Slaves of Lower Hay River or Great Slave Lake.
No.5. Statement of the number of Indians admitted to treaty this year (1900) .
No. 6. Map showing the distribution of Indians in the territory covered by Treaty No. 8, and the extent of that territory.

The Cree Indians, of Sturgeon Lake, and the country thereabouts, having met at Lesser Slave Lake, on this eight day of June, in the present year 1900, James Ansdell Macrae, Esquire, and having had explained to them the terms of the treaty unto which the Chief and Headmen of the Indians of Lesser Slave Lake and adjacent country set their hands on the twenty-first day of June, in the year 1899, do join in the cession made by the said treaty, and agree to the terms thereof in consideration of the undertakings made therein.

In witness whereof, the said James Ansdell Macrae, Esquire, and the Headmen of the said Cree Indians, have hereunto set their hands at Lesser Slave Lake, on this the eighth day of June in the year first above written.


The Beaver Indians of the Upper Peace River and the country thereabouts, having met at Fort St. John, on this thirtieth day of May, in this present year 1900, Her Majesty's Commissioner, James Ansdell Macrae, Esquire, and having had explained to them the terms of the treaty unto which the Chief and Headmen of the Indians of Lesser Slave Lake and adjacent country set their hands on the twenty-first day of June, in the year 1899, do join in the cession made by the said treaty, and agree to adhere to the terms thereof, in consideration of the undertakings made therein.

In witness whereof, Her Majesty's said Commissioner, and the following of the said Beaver Indians, have hereunto set their hands, at Fort St. John, on this the thirtieth day of May, in the year herein first above written.


The Slave Indians of Hay river and the country thereabouts, having met at Vermilion, on this twenty-third day of June, in this present year 1900, Her Majesty's Commissioner, James Ansdell Macrae, Esquire, and having explained to them the terms of the treaty unto which the Chief and Headmen of the Indians of Lesser Slave Lake and adjacent country set their hands on the twenty-first day of June, in year 1899, do join in the cessions made by the said treaty, and agree to adhere to the terms thereof in consideration of the undertakings made therein.

In witness whereof, Her Majesty's said Commissioner and the Chief and principal men of the said Slave Indians, have hereunto set their hands, at Vermilion, on this twenty-third day of June, in the year 1900.


The Indians inhabiting the south shore of Great Slave Lake, between the mouth of Hay river and old Fort Reliance, near the mouth of Lockheart's river, and territory adjacent thereto, on the mainland or on the islands of the said lake, having met at Fort Resolution, on this twenty-fifth day of July, in the present year 1900, Her Majesty's Commissioner, James Ansdell Macrae, Esquire, and having had explained to them the terms of the treaty unto which the Chief and Headmen of the Indians of Lesser Slave Lake and adjacent country set their hands on the twenty-first day of June, 1899, do join in the cession made by the said treaty, and agree to adhere to the terms thereof, in consideration of the undertakings made therein.

In witness whereof, Her Majesty's said Commissioner and the Chief and Headmen of the said Indians have hereunto set their hands, at Fort Resolution, on the twenty-fifth day of July, in the year herein first above written.


STATEMENT showing the number of Indians who joined Treaty No. 8 in A.D. 1900 and received annuity and gratuity --- the bands treated with for the first time being denoted by italics (annuities paid to those dealt with in 1899 not shown).


Certified correct,
J.A. MACRAE,
Commissioner.