Copy of an Order in Council approved by His Honour the Lieutenant Governor, the 13th day of February, A.D. 1907.

Upon consideration of the report of the Honourable the Minister of Lands, Forests and Mines, dated 11th February, 1907, the Committee of Council advise that Your Honour may be pleased to ratify so far as may be necessary the treaty entitled the James Bay Treaty No. 9, made by the Commissioners, Messrs. Duncan Campbell Scott, Samuel Stewart and Daniel George MacMartin, who were appointed to negotiate with the Ojibeway, Cree and other Indians inhabiting the territory hereinafter defined for the cession by the said Indians to the Crown on the terms embodied in the treaty, all their rights, titles and privileges to the land included in the said territory, the limits of which may be described as follows: That portion or tract of land lying and being in the province of Ontario bounded on the south by the height of land and the northern boundary of the territory ceded by the Robinson Superior Treaty of 1850, and the Robinson Huron Treaty of 1850, and bounded on the east and north by the boundaries of the said province of Ontario as defined by law and on the west by a part of the eastern boundary of the territory ceded by the Northwest Angle Treaty No. 3.

The committee further advise that Your Honour may be pleased to approve and confirm the selection of the following reserves described in the schedule attached to the report of the said commissioners, dated 6th November, 1905, and in the schedule of reserves Treaty No. 9, 1906, it being clearly understood that the government of the Dominion shall be responsible for the survey of the said reserves and that plans and field notes of the said reserves shall be deposited in the office of the Minister of Lands, Forests and Mines when such surveys have been made.

Osnaburg, an area of 20 square miles.
English River, an area of 12 square miles.
Moose Factory, an area of 66 square miles.
New Post, an area of 8 square miles.
Abitibi, an area of 30 square miles.
Matachewan, an area of 16 square miles.
Metagami, an area of 20 square miles.
Flying Post, an area of 23 square miles.
Ojibeways, at Chapleau, 160 acres.
Moose Factory Crees, at Chapleau, 160 acres.
New Brunswick House, an area of 27 square miles.
Long Lake, an area of 27 square miles.
Certified
J. LONSDALE CAPREOL,
Clerk, Executive Council.

P.C. 2547

Certified to be a true copy of a Minute of a Meeting of the Committee of the Privy Council, approved by His Excellency the Governor General on the 5th November, 1930.

The Committee of the Privy Council, on the recommendation of the Superintendent General of Indian Affairs, submit for Your Excellency's ratification and confirmation the annexed instrument containing the adhesion to James Bay Treaty Number Nine of the Ojibeway Indians and other Indians in Northern Ontario, taken at Trout Lake on the 5th day of July, 1929; at Windigo River on the 18th day of July, 1930; at Fort Severn on the 25th day of July, 1930; at Winisk on the 28th day of July, 1930, by Mr. Walter Charles Cain and Mr. Herbert Nathaniel Awrey, who were appointed by Order in Council P.C. 921, 30th May, 1929, as His Majesty's Commissioners to take the said adhesion.

E. J. LEMAIRE,
Clerk of the Privy Council

The Honourable
The Superintendent General of Indian Affairs.