Copy of an Order in Council, approved by the Honourable the Lieutenant Governor, dated the 18th day of June , A. D. 1931

The Committee of Council have had under consideration the report of the Honourable the Minister of Lands and Forests, dated June 8, 1931, therein he states that, by a Commission dated the thirtieth day of May, 1929, issued in pursuance of an agreement dated the first day of March, 1929, between the Superintendent General of Indian Affairs on behalf of the Government of Canada and the Minister of Lands and Forests of the Province of Ontario on behalf of the Government of Ontario, and in accordance with a Minute of a Meeting of the Committee of the Privy Council approved by His Excellency the Governor General on the said thirtieth day of May, 1929, Mr. Walter Charles Cain, Deputy Minister of Lands and Forests for the Province of Ontario, and Mr. Herbert Nathaniel Awrey, of the Department of Indian Affairs, were appointed Commissioners "For the purpose of negotiating an extension of James Bay Treaty No. 9 with the Ojibeway and other Indians, inhabitants of the territory within the limits hereinafter defined and described, by their chiefs and headmen, for the purpose of opening for settlement, immigration, trade, travel, mining and lumbering, and for such other purposes as to His Majesty may seem meet, a tract of country bounded and described as hereinafter mentioned, and of obtaining the consent thereto of His Indian subjects inhabiting the said tract, and of arranging with them for the cession of the Indian rights, titles and privileges to be ceded, released, surrendered and yielded up to His Majesty the King, and His successors forever, so that there may be peace and good-will between them and His Majesty's other subjects, and that His Indian people may know and be assured of what allowances they are to count upon and receive from His Majesty's bounty and benevolence, which said territory may be described and defined as follows, that is to say:

All that tract of land and land covered by water in the Province of Ontario, comprising part of the District of Kenora (Patricia portion), containing one hundred and twenty-eight thousand three hundred and twenty square miles more or less, being bounded on the south by the northerly limit of Treaty Nine; on the west by the easterly limits of Treaties Three and Five, and the boundary between the provinces of Ontario and Manitoba; on the north by the waters of Hudson Bay, and on the east by the waters of James Bay, and including all islands, islets and rocks, waters and land covered by water within the said limits;

the said treaty to release and surrender also all Indian rights and privileges whatsoever of the said Indians to all or any other lands wherever situated in Ontario, Quebec, Manitoba or the District of Keewatin or in any other portion of the Dominion of Canada."

That the said James Bay Treaty amongst other things provided for the laying aside of reserves for each band in the proportion of one square mile for each family of five or in that proportion for larger or smaller families, such reserves when confirmed to be held and administered by His Majesty for the benefit of the Indians free of all claims, liens or trusts by Ontario.

That adhesions to Treaty Number Nine, copy of which Adhesions is hereto annexed, marked Schedule "A", entered into between the said Commissioners and the Indians under the authority heretofore referred to, provide for the setting aside, through the said Commissioners, such reserves for each Band as is provided for by the said aforementioned Treaty at such places or locations as may be arranged between the said Commissioners and the Chiefs and Headmen of each Band.

That, by Ontario Statute, 1912, ch. 3, the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Ontario consented to recognize the rights of the Indian inhabitants in the territory added to and now included in the Province of Ontario by The Ontario Boundaries Extension Act, Statutes of Canada, 1912, Chapter 40.

That said Commissioners appointed to negotiate said extension of said James Bay Treaty Number 9, among other things, reported that,

"A band of Indians residing in the vicinity of Deer Lake within the territory included in Treaty No. 5, signed Adhesion to said Treaty on the 9th June , 1910, and under its conditions were assured a reserve in the proportion of 32 acres per capita. At this time the territory formed no part of the Province of Ontario, it being then part of the Northwest Territories. A final selection of the reserve had not been made and although the band in 1910 resided in the vicinity of Deer Lake and the members have since changed their abode and are now in larger numbers resident about Sandy Lake, situate within territory covered by the Commission under which the undersigned Commissioners are functioning.

In 1910 when this band was admitted they numbered 95, augmented in the year following by 78 Indians transferred from the Indian Lake band resident in Manitoba. These numbers have now increased to 332, and as the Island Lake Indians have been allotted their reserve and have had it duly surveyed on a basis excluding those transferred to the Deer Lake band, the latter are now entitled to a grant."

That the Deer Lake band of Indians desires that a reserve be set aside for said band.

That the places or locations for the reserve set aside for each band of Indians, whose Chiefs and Headmen in the years 1929 and 1930 signed the Adhesions to Treaty No. 9, have been arranged between said Commissioners and the Chiefs and Headmen of each respective band of Indians.

That the places or locations of said reserves so set aside and so arranged between the said Commissioners and the Chiefs and Headmen of each respective band of Indians are set forth in the Report of Commissioners re Adhesions to Treaty No. 9 for the year 1930, in which Report said Commissioners recommend:

That the surrender made in the year 1905 by the Indians of such portion of the territory then in the Northwest Territories and now within the Province of Ontario be approved and confirmed.
That the following reserves situated in the area referred to in the preceding paragraph(a) be approved and confirmed.
Osnaburg, North side Albany river, 53 square miles.
Fort Hope, 100 square miles.
Marten Falls, 30 square miles
Fort Albany, 140 square miles.
These reserves having been duly surveyed and plans of same filed some years ago.
That all the new reserves hereinafter roughly described and shown coloured black on accompanying map (marked Schedule "B") be approved and confirmed.
That any mining claims staked out and recorded, within any of the above mentioned unsurveyed reserves, subsequent to the date of the signing of the Adhesion covering the areas, shall in all respects be subject to the provisions of Ontario Statutes 1924, Cap. 15, 14 Geo. V, which defines and protects the rights of the Indians."
The Minister, therefore, recommends the approval, ratification and confirmation of:

The surrenders, as far as may be necessary, made in the year 1905 by the Indians of such portions of the territory as at that time were within the limits of the Northwest Territories and now within the Province of Ontario by reason of The Ontario Boundaries Extension Act, Statutes of Canada, 1912, Ch. 40.
The Osnaburg (North side Albany river, 53 square miles), Fort Hope (100 square miles), Marten Falls (30 square miles) and Fort Albany Reserve (140 square miles) allotted to the Indians in pursuance of the surrenders made by them in the year 1905 under Treaty No. 9, at which time such reserves were within the limits of the Northwest Territories but now, under The Ontario Boundaries Extension Act, Statutes of Canada, 1912, Ch. 40, within the limits of the Province of Ontario.
The Treaty entitled Adhesions to Treaty No. 9 made by Messrs. Walter Charles Cain and Herbert Nathaniel Awrey, who were appointed to negotiate with the Ojibeway and other Indian inhabitants of the territory, referred to in page 1 hereof, for the cession by said Indians to the Crown on the terms embodied in said Treaty No. 9 of their rights, titles and privileges to the land included in the said territory.
The reserves mentioned in the report of the said Commissioners and duly selected by them under agreement with the representatives Chiefs and Headmen of each Band, such reserves being described and set out on Schedule "C" hereto attached; it being clearly understood however that the Government of Canada shall be responsible for the survey of these reserves and that plans and field notes of such shall be deposited in the Department of Lands and Forest for the Province and be duly approved by the Surveyor- General.
The Minister further recommends that any mining claims staked out and recorded within any of the above mentioned unsurveyed reserves subsequent to the date of the signing of the Adhesion covering the areas shall in all respects be subject to the provisions of Ontario Statutes, 1924, Chapter 15, which defines and protects the rights of the Indians

The Committee of Council concur in the recommendations of the Honourable the Minister of Lands and Forests, and advise that the same be acted on.

Certified, C. H. BULMER, Chief, Executive Council.

Reserves Approved and Confirmed for Trout Lake Indians
RESERVE 1, Trout Lake. Lying on the East and Southeast shore of Trout Lake where it empties into the Fawn river and on both sides thereof along the shore of said lake for 3½ miles more or less and back therefrom to a distance of approximately 12 miles, always, as far as possible, at a distance of 3½ miles from the shore on each side of the main channel of the said Fawn river, containing 85 square miles more or less.

RESERVE 2, Sachigo Lake. Lying at the outlet of Sachigo lake where it empties into Sachigo river and extending on both sides thereof along the shore of the said lake 1¾ miles more or less and back therefrom to a distance of approximately 4 miles, always, as far as possible, at a distance of 1¾ miles from the shores on each side of the main channel of the said river, containing 14 square miles more or less.

RESERVE 3, Wunnumin Lake. Lying at the southeast end of Wunnumin lake where it empties into the Winisk river, 4½ miles in frontage by 6 miles in depth, the area to be largely to the South side, the North boundary to be so extended as to include sufficient area on both sides of the river, containing 27 square miles more or less.

For Caribou Lake Indians
Caribou Lake. Lying on the South shore of Caribou lake, slightly to the left or Westerly end, so that sufficient frontage of a somewhat extended bay will be included, the dimensions to be approximately 8 miles long by 4.4 miles wide.

For Deer Lake Band
Sandy Lake Narrows. Lying at the Narrows, being a stretch of water lying between Sandy Lake and Lake Co-pe-te-qua-yah, the reserve to comprise 10,624 acres, or approximately 17 square miles, to be laid out in a rectangle having a width, so far as possible, of at least 3 miles with sufficient depth to satisfy the acreage requirement.

For Fort Severn Band
Fort Severn. At the mouth of the Beaverstone river, where it joins the Severn River, 1½ miles frontage on each side of the Beaverstone river and back 5 miles more or less from the mouth, the said river being shown on map No. 20a, issued in 1926 by the Province of Ontario, as "Beaverstone", although called "Castorum" by the Hudson's Bay Company and "We-ke-mow" by the Indians, containing 15 square miles more or less.

For Winisk Band
Winisk. Situated at the old outpost of the Hudson's Bay Company up the Winisk river at its junction with what is known as the Asheweig river, the reserve to be so laid out as to comprise a width of 3 miles or 1½ miles on each side of the West branch of the Asheweig river where it empties into the Winisk, and to follow both sides of the said Asheweig river 5 miles, or such distances as will afford a total area of 17 square miles more or less.

For Attawapiskat Band
Attawapiskat. Situated at the junction of the Little Eqwan river with the main Eqwan river, to start on the main Eqwan river at a point 4½ miles west of the said junction and to comprise a width of 6 miles, or 3 miles on each side of the river, and a depth down the river of approximately 17.4 miles, containing 104.4 square miles more or less. It being clearly understood that the Government of the Dominion is to be responsible for the survey of these reserves and that plans and field notes of the said reserves shall be deposited in the office of the Minister of Lands and Forests when such surveys have been made.