Schedule of Reserves - Treaty No. 9 - 1905
Onasburg
In the province of Ontario, beginning at the western entrance of the Albany river running westward a distance estimated at four miles as far as the point known as "Sand Point" at the eastern entrance of Pedlar's Path Bay, following the shore of this point southwards and around it and across the narrow entrance of the bay to a point on the eastern shore of the outlet of Paukumjeesenaneseepee, thence due south; to comprise an area of twenty square miles.

In the Northwest Territories, beginning at a point in the centre of the foot of the first small bay west of the Hudson's Bay Company's post, thence west a frontage of ten miles and north a sufficient distance to give a total area of fifty-three square miles.

Fort Hope
In the Northwest Territories, beginning at Kitchesagi on the north shore of Lake Eabamet extending eastward along the shore of the lake ten miles, lines to be run at right angles from these points to contain sufficient land to provide one square mile for each family of five, upon the ascertained population of the band.

Marten Falls
In the Northwest Territories, on the Albany river, beginning at a point one-quarter of a mile below the foot of the rapid known as Marten Falls down stream a distance of six miles and of sufficient depth to give an area of thirty square miles.

English River
In the province of Ontario, beginning at a point on the Kenogami or English river, three miles below the Hudson's Bay Company's post, known as English River post, on the east side of the river, thence down stream two miles and with sufficient depth to give an area of twelve square miles.

Port Albany
In the Northwest Territories, beginning at the point where the North river flows out of the main stream of the Albany, thence north on the west side of the North river a distance of ten miles and of sufficient depth to give an area of one hundred and forty square miles.

Moose Factory
In the province of Ontario, beginning at a point on the east shore of Moose river at South Bluff creek, thence south six miles on the east shore of French river, and of sufficient depth to give an area of sixty-six square miles.

New Post
In the province of Ontario, beginning at a point one mile south of the northeast end of the eastern arm of the lake known as Taquahtagama, or Big lake, situated about eight miles inland south from New Post on the Abitibi river, thence in a northerly direction about four miles, and of sufficient depth in an easterly direction to give an area of eight square miles.

The reserves are granted with the understanding that connections may be made for settlers' roads wherever required.

DUNCAN C. SCOTT,
SAMUEL STEWART,
DANIEL G. MACMARTIN,
Treaty Commissioners.

*Mr. D.G. MacMartin.