THIS AGREEMENT made on the third day of July, in the year of Our Lord, 1905, between

The Honourable Frank Oliver, Superintendent General of Indian Affairs, on behalf of the government of Canada

Of the one part:

And

The Honourable Francis Cochrane, Minister of Lands and Mines of the province of Ontario, on behalf of the government of Ontario.

On the other part.

Whereas, His Most Gracious Majesty the King of Great Britain and Ireland is about to negotiate a treaty with the Ojibeway and other Indians inhabitants of the territory within the limits hereinafter defined and described by their chiefs and headmen for the purpose of opening for settlement, immigration, trade, travel, mining and lumbering, and for such other purposes as to His Majesty may seem meet, a tract of country bounded and described as hereinafter mentioned, and of obtaining the consent thereto of His Indian subjects inhabiting the said tract, and of arranging with them for the cession of the Indian rights, titles and privileges to be ceded, released, surrendered and yielded up to His Majesty the King and His successors for ever, so that there may be, peace and good-will between them and His Majesty's other subjects, and that His Indian people may know and be assured of what allowances they are to count upon and receive from His Majesty's bounty and benevolence, which said territory may be described and defined as follows, that is to say, all that portion or tract of land lying and being in the province of Ontario, bounded on the south side by the height of land and the northern boundaries of the territory ceded by the Robinson-Superior Treaty of 1850, and the Robinson-Huron Treaty of 1850, and bounded on the east and north by the boundaries of the said province of Ontario as defined by law, and on the west by a part of the eastern boundary of the territory ceded by the Northwest Angle Treaty No. 3; the said land containing an area of ninety thousand square miles, more or less, said treaty to release and surrender also all Indian rights and privileges whatsoever of the said Indians to all or any other lands wherever situated in Ontario, Quebec, Manitoba, or the district of Keewatin, or in any other portion of the Dominion of Canada.

And whereas, by the agreement made the 16th day of April, 1894, entered into between the government of the Dominion of Canada, represented by the Honourable T. Mayne Daly, and the government of the province of Ontario, represented by the Honourable John M. Gibson, in pursuance of the statute of Canada passed in the fifty-fourth and fifty-fifth years of Her Majesty's reign, chaptered five and intituled, "An Act for the settlement of certain questions between the governments of Canada and Ontario respecting Indian lands," and the statute of Ontario passed in the fifty-fourth year of Her Majesty's reign, chaptered three, and entitled, "An Act for the settlement of certain questions between the governments of Canada and Ontario respecting Indian lands," and by the sixth clause of the said agreement it is provided, "That any future treaties with the Indians in respect of territory in Ontario to which they have not before the passing of the said statutes surrendered their claim aforesaid, shall be deemed to require the concurrence of the government of Ontario," and by the said intended treaty it is signified and declared that His Majesty show his satisfaction with the behaviour and good conduct of His Indian subjects, and in extinguishment of all their past claims through His commissioners, will make to each Indian a present of eight dollars in cash, and will also next year and annually afterwards for ever cause to be paid to each of the said Indians in cash, at suitable places and dates, of which the said Indians shall be duly notified, the sum of four dollars, and that unless there be some exceptional reason, such sums will be paid only to heads of families for those belonging thereto.

It is therefore agreed by and between the governments of Canada and of Ontario as aforesaid, as follows: —

That, subject to the provisions contained in the hereinbefore recited agreement of 16th April, 1894, and also the agreement made on 7th July, 1902, by counsel on behalf of the governments of the Dominion and Ontario, intervening parties, upon the appeal to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in the suit of the Ontario Mining Company v. Seybold et al. (Ont. S.P., 1904, No. 93), a copy whereof is hereto attached; and the surrender of the Indian title within Ontario to the entire territory herein defined and described, duly obtained, —

The government of the province of Ontario hereby gives consent and upon the following conditions concurs in the terms proposed to be entered into, made and agreed by the said treaty, in so far that the said government of Ontario, on and after the payment to the Indians of the above mentioned present of eight dollars, and thereafter the payment annually of four dollars to each Indian, for ever, as above specified, promises and agrees to pay the said sums to the government of Canada, upon request when and as the same are paid to the Indians, upon proof, when required, of such payment — such payments to be free from any expenses at the cost of Ontario attendant upon distribution of the said sums of money.

And the government of Ontario, subject to the conditions, aforesaid, further concurs in the setting apart and location of reserves within any part of the said territory, as surrendered or intended to be surrendered, in area not greater than one square mile for each family of five, or in like proportion, at points to be chosen by the commissioners negotiating the said treaty, one of the said commissioners to be appointed by the Lieutenant Governor of Ontario in Council, and the selection of the said reserves to be subject to the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council.

And the government of Ontario stipulates no part of the expense of survey and location of the said reserves to be at any time at the cost of the government of Ontario.

And further, that no site suitable for the development of water-power exceeding 500 horse-power shall be included within the boundaries of any reserve.

It is also agreed between the parties hereto that no part of the cost of negotiating the said treaty is to be borne by the province of Ontario.

In witness whereof, these presents have been signed and sealed on behalf of the government of Canada by the Honourable Frank Oliver, Superintendent General of Indian Affairs, and on behalf of the government of Ontario by the Honourable Francis Cochrane, Minister of Lands and Mines.

Signed, sealed and delivered by the Honourable Frank Oliver,
in presence of FRANK PEDLEY,
and by the Honourable FRANCIS COCHRANE
in the presence of GEO. W. YATES.

FRANK OLIVER.

F. COCHRANE.

Agreement between counsel on behalf of the Dominion and Ontario, intervening parties upon the appeal to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in Ontario Mining Company vs. Seybold et al.

As to all treaty Indian reserves in Ontario (including those in the territory covered by the Northwest Angle Treaty, which are or shall be duly established pursuant to the statutory agreement of one thousand eight hundred and ninety-four), and which have been or shall be duly surrendered by the Indians to sell or lease for their benefit, Ontario agrees to confirm the titles heretofore made by the Dominion, and that the Dominion shall have full power and authority to sell or lease and convey title in fee simple or for any less estate.

The Dominion agrees to hold the proceeds of such lands when or so far as they have been converted into money upon the extinction of the Indian interest therein, subject to such rights of Ontario thereto as may exist by law.

As to the reserves in the territory covered by the Northwest Angle Treaty which may be duly established as aforesaid, Ontario agrees that the precious metals shall be considered to form part of the reserves and may be disposed by the Dominion for the benefit of the Indians to the same extent and subject to the same undertaking as to the proceeds as heretofore agreed with regard to the lands in such reserves.

The question as to whether other reserves in Ontario include precious metals to depend upon the instruments and circumstances and law affecting each case respectively.

Nothing is hereby conceded by either party with regard to the constitutional or legal rights of the Dominion or Ontario as to the sale or title to Indian reserves or precious metals, or as to any of the contentions submitted by the cases of either government herein, but it is intended that as a matter of policy and convenience the reserves may be administered as hereinbefore agreed.

Nothing herein contained shall be considered as binding Ontario to confirm the titles hereto before made by the Dominion to portions of Reserve 38B already granted by Ontario as appearing in the proceedings.

(Sgd.) E. L. NEWCOMBE, for the Dominion.
(Sgd.) EDWARD BLAKE, for Ontario.

Dated 7th July, 1902.