OTTAWA, October 5, 1906.

The Honourable
The Supt. General of Indian Affairs,
Ottawa.

SIR, — The operations of the Treaty 9 commission during last season ceased at Abitibi, as owing to the absence of the most influential Indians interested in the proposed negotiations it was found impossible to complete the business at that point. In addition to the Abitibi Indians there also remained a number comprising probably a third of the whole population of the treaty situated at various Hudson's Bay Company's posts, north of the height of land, and scattered along the line of the Canadian Pacific railway as far west as Heron Bay.

Accordingly, to meet and conclude negotiations with these Indians, the commissioners left Ottawa on May 22. Some changes in the party had of necessity to be made. Mr. T. C. Rae, who last year had charge of transportation, was unable to accompany the commission. In his place Mr. Pelham Edgar, of Toronto, who acted as secretary, was added to the party. The services of Mr. J. L. Vanasse, Dominion police constable, were alone retained, as, owing to promotion, Mr. Parkinson could not be detailed for the work. With these exceptions the personnel of the party was the same as last year.

The route to Fort Abitibi from Mattawa, which latter place was left on the morning of May 23, was by the Canadian Pacific railway to Timiskaming, thence by boat to New Liskeard and North Timiskaming. A portage of 17 miles had next to be encountered before reaching Quinze lake, the starting point by canoe for Fort Abitibi.

Arrangements were completed on the morning of May 29 for departure, but a violent wind-storm prevented our starting. Through the kindness of Mr. McCaig, foreman for Mr. R. H. Klock, we were able to leave at one o'clock in the afternoon by "alligator" boat Trudel, for The Barrier, 10 miles distant, the first portage north of our starting point. Here we were obliged to camp, as the river was blocked for a considerable distance by a "drive" of logs.

At half-past nine on the morning of the 30th the "drive" was all through and we were able to leave for the post, which was reached at three in the afternoon of June 4.

A majority of the Indians had arrived, but there were a number reported to be on the way who were expected within a day or two. It was thought advisable to wait for them, the interval being utilized by the commissioners in preparing the pay-lists, and by the doctor in giving medical advice to those requiring it.

On June 7, the looked-for Indians having arrived, a meeting was called for the afternoon of that day. Some difficulty was anticipated in negotiating the treaty at Abitibi owing to the peculiar position of the Indians who trade at that post. The post is situated a few miles within the province of Quebec, and the majority of the Indians who trade there belong to that province. It was natural for the Indians to conclude that, as it was the Dominion government and not the provincial government that was negotiating the treaty, no distinction would be made between those hunting in Ontario and those hunting in Quebec. The commissioners had, however, to state that they had no authority to treat with the Quebec Indians, and that the conference in regard to the treaty could only be held with those whose hunting grounds are in the province of Ontario. The Quebec Indians were, however, given to understand that a conference would be held with them later, and that upon their signifying where they desired to have a reserve set apart for them, the government would undertake to secure, if possible, the land required by them at the place designated.

The policy of the province of Ontario has differed very widely from that of Quebec in the matter of the lands occupied by the Indians.

In Ontario, formerly Upper Canada, the rule laid down by the British government from the earliest occupancy of the country has been followed, which recognizes the title of the Indians to the lands occupied by them as their hunting grounds, and their right to compensation for such portions as have from time to time been surrendered by them. In addition to an annual payment in perpetuity, care has also been taken to set apart reservations for the exclusive use of the Indians, of sufficient extent to meet their present and future requirements.

Quebec, formerly Lower Canada, on the other hand, has followed the French policy, which did not admit the claims of the Indians to the lands in the province, but they were held to be the property of the Crown by right of discovery and conquest. Surrenders have not, therefore, been taken from the Indians by the Crown of the lands occupied by them.

The reserves occupied by the Indians within the province of Quebec are those granted by private individuals, or lands granted to religious corporations in trust for certain bands. In addition, land to the extent of 230,000 acres was set apart and appropriated in different parts of Lower Canada under 14 and 15 Vic., chap. 106, for the benefit of different tribes.

Several reserves have also been purchased by the Federal government for certain bands desiring to locate in the districts where the purchases were made.

The conference with the Ontario Indians proved to be highly satisfactory. When the terms of the treaty were fully explained to them through Mr. George Drever, who has a mastery of several Indian dialects, Louis McDougall, Jr., one of the principal men of the band, stated that they were satisfied with the conditions offered and were willing to faithfully carry out the provisions of the treaty. They would also rely upon the government keeping its promises to them. The band hoped that the reserve to be set apart for them would include as great an extent of lake frontage as possible. The other Indians being asked whether they were all of like mind with the spokesman in regard to the treaty, replied that they were, and that they were willing that representatives of the band should sign for them at once. The treaty was accordingly signed by the commissioners and representative Indians, as well as by several witnesses who were present at the conference.

In the forenoon of June 8, payments of annuities were made with great care, in order that only those Indians whose hunting grounds are in Ontario should have their names placed on the list. The commissioners are satisfied that in the performance of this duty they were successful.

In the afternoon an election of a chief and councillors was held, which resulted in Louis McDougall, Jr., being chosen as chief and Michel Penatouche and Andrew McDougall as councillors.

A conference was also held with representative Indians regarding the reserves desired by the band. The conclusion arrived at will be seen by reference to the schedule of reserves attached. After due deliberation the Quebec Indians decided upon the location of their reserve.

The usual feast was held, at which the presentation of a flag and a copy of the treaty took place.

The commissioners and the medical officer having concluded their duties, we left on the morning of June 9 for Quinze lake, which place was reached on the evening of the 12th.

On the morning of the 13th the long and difficult portage between Quinze lake and North Timiskaming was crossed, and at the latter place the boat was taken for Haileybury. Latchford was reached by the Timiskaming and Northern Ontario railway on the afternoon of the 14th. The crew, consisting of five men from Temagami and a number of Indians from Matachewan post, including Michel Baptiste, who was afterwards elected chief, assembled late in the afternoon, and on the morning of the 15th we left by way of Montreal river for Matachewan. The post at Matachewan was reached on the afternoon of June 19, after a difficult journey owing to the numerous rapids in the river and the height of the water. Matachewan is beautifully situated at a point on the Montreal river upon high grounds; the lofty shores of the stream are thickly wooded.

A conference was held with the Indians on the afternoon of the 20th. As usual, the terms of the treaty were fully explained, and an opportunity given the Indians to ask any questions regarding any matter on which further information was desired. Michel Baptiste, on behalf of the Indians, said that the terms of the treaty were very satisfactory to them, and that they were ready to have representatives of the band sign at once. The treaty was therefore signed and witnessed with all due formality.

Payments were made on the 21st to the 79 Indians. The election for a chief resulted in Michel Baptiste being chosen for that position, and at the feast in the evening he was presented with a flag and a copy of the treaty.

The location of the reserve desired by the Indians received careful consideration, and no objection can, it is thought, be taken to the site finally decided upon.

Arrangements have been made for leaving Matachewan early in the morning of the 23rd, but a heavy rain-storm prevented our doing so before half-past four in the afternoon.

The return trip was made by way of Montreal river, Lady Evelyn lake and Lake Temagami to Temagami station. From the latter place we proceeded by train to Biscotasing, our point of departure both for Fort Mattagami and Flying Post. At Biscotasing we also expected to meet a number of Indians belonging to Treaty No. 9, who reside in the vicinity of that place during the summer months.

Biscotasing was reached at twenty minutes past four on the afternoon of Saturday, June 30, and the commissioners were obliged to remain there awaiting the men from Mattagami who were to bring them by canoe to that place, and who did not arrive until the evening of July 3.

We left for Mattagami on the morning of July 4. The Fort was reached about ten on the morning of July 7, when a cordial welcome was given us by Mr. Joseph Miller, who is in charge of that post. We also met at the post Dr. W. Goldie and his brother, of Toronto, who were spending their holidays at that place.

Dr. Goldie had been giving the Indians free medical attendance as far as the medicine he had with him permitted, and he also offered his services in association with Dr. Meindl during our stay at the post. Here we also met Mr. Kenneth G. Ross, chief forest ranger for the district, and several of his assistant, who had come to the post owing to the Indians employed by them desiring to be present at the treaty.

The Indians treated with at Mattagami were well dressed, and appeared to be living comfortably. A degree of unusual cleanliness was to be observed in their surrounding and habits. They gave a cheerful hearing to the terms of the proposed treaty, which was fully explained to them through Mr. Miller, who acted as interpreter. They, like the other Indians visited, were given an opportunity to ask any questions or to make any remarks they might desire with reference to the propositions made to them.

The Indians held a short conversation among themselves, and then announcement through Joseph Shemeket, one of their number, that they were fully satisfied with the terms of the treaty, and were prepared to have it signed by representatives of the band. The treaty was, therefore, at once signed and witnessed. Payments were begun and concluded in the afternoon, and preparations made for the feast. An election for chief was also held, resulting in Andrew Luke being chosen for that position, to whom a flag and a copy of the treaty were presented in the presence of the band.

It is considered by the commissioners that the reserve selected, as shown by the schedule of reserves, should meet with approval.

Mattagami was left on the morning of July 9, and Biscotasing reached on the evening of the 11th. The party left on the afternoon of the 12th for Flying Post and arrived there about eleven on the morning of the 15th (Sunday). The Indians at Flying Post, although small of stature, are lively and energetic, and the journey from Biscotasing to Flying Post and return was rendered enjoyable by the cheerfulness with which they undertook all tasks, and the quickness with which they accomplished the journey. The Indians were assembled on the morning of the 16th, and the terms of the treaty were fully explained through Mr. A. J. McLeod, Hudson's Bay Company's officer, who acted as interpreter. Isaac, one of the leading Indians, speaking for the band, said that they thankfully accepted the benefits offered by the treaty and were willing to observe its provisions. The treaty was, therefore, duly signed and witnesses. The Indians also signified their desire regarding the position of the reserve to be allotted to them, and their choice, as indicated in the schedule is recommended for approval. Albert Black Ice was unanimously elected as chief of the band, and at the feast which was held in the evening, the usual presentation of a flag and a copy of the treaty was made. The return journey to Biscotasing was begun on the morning of July 17, and that place was reached on the afternoon of the l9th. On the morning of the 20th payments were made to the Indians of Flying Post and Mattagami residing at Biscotasing.

The work of the commission was facilitated by the assistance of Mr. J. E. T. Armstrong, who is in charge of the Hudson's Bay Company's store at that place, and who is thoroughly familiar with the Indians. The considerable Indian population at this point is made up of stragglers from the Spanish River band of the Robinson Treaty, and from Flying Post and Mattagami. They make their living by acting as guides and canoeists for sportsmen, and occasionally work in the mills. Their children have the advantage of attendance at a day school to which the department has been able to give some financial assistance, and also the benefit of mingling on terms of educational equality with white children.

We left for Chapleau about a quarter-past four in the afternoon, and arrived about seven in the evening. Here we were met by the Right Rev. George Holmes, Bishop of Moosonee, and Rev. C. Banting, who aided us in every way possible in the discharge of our duties at Chapleau. Mr. J . M. Austin, who has had long experience with the Indians of that place, also gave us valuable assistance.

It was not necessary to make treaty with the Indians of Chapleau, as they belong to bands residing at Moose Factory, English River, and other points where treaty had already been made. They were, however, recognized as members of the bands to which they belong, and were paid the gratuity due them, after being informed as to what the acceptance of the money by them involved.

Reference to the schedule of reserves will show that small areas are recommended for the Ojibeways and Crees at this point. Large reserves having been set apart for the bands to which they belong at other points in the province, it is only thought advisable and necessary to give them a sufficient area upon which to build their small houses and cultivate garden plots. The Ojibeway reserve is contiguous to the land purchased by the Robinson treaty Indians, which has already been considerably improved.

Payments having been completed at Chapleau, the party left on the evening of the 22nd for Missinaibi and arrived at that station at eight in the evening. This place is of considerable local importance as being the point of departure of one of the main routes to Moose Factory and James Bay by way of Missinaibi river. There is also direct water communication with Michipicoten on lake Superior.

Bishop Holmes, with Rev. Mr. Ovens and his wife and two lady missionaries, who had expected toaccompany us as far as New Brunswick House, on their way to Moose Factory, arrived at Missinaibi on the morning of July 23. Their crew had, however, been awaiting them for several days and they were, therefore, able to leave at once for their destinations. Our crew, with a canoe from New Brunswick House, did not reach Missinaibi until the evening of the 23rd, and our departure was thus delayed until the morning of the 24th.

New Brunswick House was reached on the afternoon of the 25th, where we found the bishop and his party, who had only arrived a few hours before us. This post is situated at the northern end of the beautiful Missinaibi lake, and the outlook from the post is delightful.

The Indians were assembled in the evening and the terms of the treaty explained to them. On being asked whether they had any questions to ask or any remarks to make, they replied, through Mr. J. G. Christie, Hudson's Bay Company's officer, that they were perfectly satisfied with what they were to receive under the treaty, and were willing to sign at once. The signatures of the commissioners and of five of the leading men were, therefore, affixed to the treaty, as well as that of six witnesses. Payments were made on the 25th to about 100 Indians. Alex Peeketay was chosen by the Indians for the position of chief, and he was presented with a flag and a copy of the treaty at the feast held on the evening of the 26th. A conference regarding the reserve to be set apart was also held. The decision arrived at in regard to this matter will be seen by reference to the schedule attached.

Our duties, as well as those of the doctor, being concluded, we left on the morning of the 28th for Missinaibi, and arrived at that place on the afternoon of the 29th.

Payments were made on the 30th to ninety-eight Moose Factory Indians who live at Missinaibi.

We left on the 31st for Heron Bay, our point of departure for Long Lake, and arrived at the former place at half-past twelve in the afternoon. Arrangements for canoes were not completed until the afternoon of the following day, so that it was not until a quarter to five that we were able to leave for the last post to be visited by us.

The route to Long Lake is at all times a rather difficult one, but was more than ordinarily so this season owing to the water in the Pic river being unusually low. The post was reached on the morning of the 8th. We were accompanied on this trip by Mr. H. A. Tremayne, District Inspector, Hudson's Bay Company, and his wife and young daughter.

A conference was held with the Indians on August 9, and their adhesion to treaty obtained.

Peter Taylor, speaking for the Indians, said they were perfectly satisfied with the terms of the treaty, and much pleased that they were to receive annuity like their brethren of the Robinson Treaty, and also that they were to be granted land which they could feel was their own. Payments were made to 135 Indians. The question of a reserve was carefully gone into, and the commissioners have no hesitation in recommending the confirmation of the site chosen.

The Indians of Treaty 9 stated that they desired to have Newatchkigigswabe, the Robinson Treaty chief, recognized as their chief also, as he had been recognized by them in the past. This was agreed to, and at the feast held on the evening of August 9 the usual presentation of a flag and a copy of the treaty was made. At the conclusion of the feast the chief spoke, thanking the government for what had been done for the Indians of Long Lake. He said that the Indians who had been receiving annuity money for years were glad that their brethren were now placed on an equal footing with them. He hoped that provision would be made for their sick and destitute, as even in the best seasons the Indians found it very difficult to do more than make a living, and were able to do very little towards assisting one another. In reply, the chief was informed that the government was always ready to assist those actually requiring help, but that the Indians must rely as much as possible upon their own exertions for their support.

The return journey was begun on the afternoon of August 10, and Heron Bay was reached on the evening of the 14th. At this place we concluded our duties in connection with the making of the treaty by paying English River Indians, now residing at Montizambert.

The commissioners have pleasure in referring to the evident desire of the Indians at all points visited to display their loyalty to the government, by the reception given to the commissioners, and also by their recognition of the benefits conferred upon them by the treaty.

We desire also to acknowledge the kind attention paid to us and the assistance given by the officers of the Hudson's Bay Company and Revillon Frères.

Nine hundred and fifteen Indians were paid at the points mentioned. Inspector J. G. Ramsden, who visited the Indians who joined treaty in the summer of 1905, paid 2,047. The population of the whole treaty may, therefore, be placed at 3,000 approximately.

Attached to this report will be found a copy of the treaty with signatures as completed, and schedule of reserves.

We have the honour to be, sir,
Your obedient servants,

DUNCAN C. SCOTT,
SAMUEL STEWART,
DANIEL G. MACMARTIN,
Treaty Commissioners.