Abitibi
In the province of Ontario, beginning at a point on the south shore of Abitibi lake, at the eastern boundary of the township of Milligan projected, thence east following the lake shore to the outlet of Kaquaquakechewaig (Current-running-both-ways) creek, and of sufficient depth between the said creek and the eastern boundaries of the townships of Milligan and McCool to give an area of thirty square miles.

Matachewan
In the province of Ontario, inland and north from Fort Matachewan, beginning at the creek connecting a small lagoon with the northwest shore of Turtle lake, thence south on the west shore of said lake a sufficient distance to give an area of sixteen square miles.

Mattagami
In the province of Ontario, on the west side of Mattagami lake, three-quarters of a mile north of a point opposite the Hudson's Bay Company's post, thence north following the lake front a distance of four miles, and of sufficient depth to give an area of twenty square miles.

Flying Post
In the province of Ontario, commencing at a point half a mile south of Six-mile rapids, on the east side of Ground Hog river, thence south a distance of four miles, and of sufficient depth to give an area of twenty-three square miles.

Ojibeways – Chapeleau
In the province of Ontario, one hundred and sixty acres abutting and south of the reserve sold to the Robinson Treaty Indians, one mile below the town of Chapleau.

Moose Factory Crees – Chapeleau
In the province of Ontario, one hundred and sixty acres fronting Kerebesquashesing river.

New Brunswick House
In the province of Ontario, beginning at the entrance to an unnamed creek on the west shore of Missinaibi river, about half a mile southwest of the Hudson's Bay Company's post, thence north four miles, and of sufficient depth to give an area of twenty-seven square miles.

Long Lake
In the province of Ontario, beginning at a point where the "Suicide" or Little Albany river enters Long lake, thence in a southerly direction four miles, following the lake frontage, of a sufficient depth to give an area of twenty-seven square miles.

The reserves are granted with the understanding that connections may be made for settlers' roads wherever required.

DUNCAN C. SCOTT,
SAMUEL STEWART,
D. GEO. MACMARTIN,
Treaty Commissioners.