OTTAWA, November 6, 1905.

The Honourable
Superintendent General of Indian Affairs,
Ottawa.

SIR, — Since the treaties known as the Robinson Treaties were signed in the autumn of the year 1850, no cession of the Indian title to lands lying within the defined limits of the province of Ontario had been obtained. By these treaties the Ojibeway Indians gave up their right and title to a large tract of country lying between the height of land and Lakes Huron and Superior. In 1873, by the Northwest Angle Treaty (Treaty No. 3), the Saulteaux Indians ceded a large tract east of Manitoba, part of which now falls within the boundaries of the province of Ontario. The first-mentioned treaty was made by the old province of Canada, the second by the Dominion.

Increasing settlement, activity in mining and railway construction in that large section of the province of Ontario north of the height of land and south of the Albany river rendered it advisable to extinguish the Indian title. The undersigned were, therefore, appointed by Order of His Excellency in Council on June 29, 1905, as commissioners to negotiate a treaty with the Indians inhabiting the unceded tract. This comprised about 90,000 square miles of the provincial lands drained by the Albany and Moose river systems.

When the question first came to be discussed, it was seen that it would be difficult to separate the Indians who came from their hunting grounds on both sides of the Albany river to trade at the posts of the Hudson's Bay Company, and to treat only with that portion which came from the southern or Ontario side. As the cession of the Indian title in that portion of the Northwest Territories which lies to the north of the Albany river would have to be consummated at no very distant date, it was thought advisable to make the negotiations with Indians whose hunting grounds were in Ontario serve as the occasion for dealing upon the same terms with all the Indians trading at Albany river posts, and to add to the community of interest which for trade purposes exists amongst these Indians a like responsibility for treaty obligations. We were, therefore, given power by Order of His Excellency in Council of July 6, 1905, to admit to treaty any Indian whose hunting grounds cover portions of the Northwest Territories lying between the Albany river, the district of Keewatin and Hudson bay, and to set aside reserves in that territory.

In one essential particular the constitution of the commission to negotiate this treaty differed from that of others which undertook similar service in the past. One member* was nominated by the province of Ontario under the provisions of clause 6 of the Statute of Canada, 54-55 Vic., chap. V., which reads: "That any future treaties with the Indians in respect of territory in Ontario to which they have not before the passing of the said Statutes surrendered their claim aforesaid shall be deemed to require the concurrence of the government of Ontario." The concurrence of the government of Ontario carried with it the stipulation that one member of the commission should be nominated by and represent Ontario.

It is important also to note that under the provisions of clause 6 just quoted, the terms of the treaty were fixed by the governments of the Dominion and Ontario; the commissioners were empowered to offer certain conditions, but were not allowed to alter or add to them in the event of their not being acceptable to the Indians.

After the preliminary arrangements were completed, the commissioners left Ottawa for Dinorwic, the point of departure for Osnaburg, on June 30, and arrived there on July 2.

The party consisted of the undersigned, A. G. Meindl, Esq., M.D., who had been appointed to carry out the necessary work of medical relief and supervision, and James Parkinson and J. L. Vanasse, constables of the Dominion police force. At Dinorwic the party was met by T. C. Rae, Esq., chief trader of the Hudson's Bay Company, who had been detailed by the commissioner of the Hudson's Bay Company to travel with the party and make arrangements for transportation and maintenance en route. Mr. Rae had obtained a competent crew at Dinorwic to take the party to Osnaburg. The head man was James Swain, an old Albany river guide and mail-carrier, who is thoroughly familiar with the many difficult rapids of this river.

The party left Dinorwic on the morning of July 3, and after crossing a long portage of nine miles, first put the canoes into the water at Big Sandy Lake. On July 5 we passed Frenchman's Head reservation, and James Bunting, councillor in charge of the band, volunteered the assistance of a dozen of his stalwart men to help us over the difficult Ishkaqua portage, which was of great assistance, as we were then carrying a great weight of supplies and baggage. On the evening of the 5th, the waters of Lac Seul were reached, and on the morning of the 6th the party arrived at Lac Seul post of the Hudson's Bay Company. Here the commission met with marked hospitality from Mr. J. D. McKenzie, in charge of the post, who rendered every assistance in his power. He interpreted whenever necessary, for which task he was eminently fitted by reason of his perfect knowledge of the Ojibeway language.

The hunting grounds of the Indians who traded at this post had long ago been surrendered by Treaty No. 3, but it was thought advisable to call at this point to ascertain whether any non-treaty Indians had assembled there from points beyond Treaty No. 3, but adjacent to it. Only one family, from Albany river, was met with. The case was fully investigated and the family was afterwards attached to the new treaty.

The afternoon of the 6th was spent in a visit to the Lac Seul reserve in an attempt to discourage the dances and medicine feasts which were being held upon the reserve. The Indians of this band were well dressed, and for the most part seemed to live in a state of reasonable comfort. Their hunting grounds are productive.

The party left Lac Seul on the morning of July 7, en route for Osnaburg passing through Lac Seul, and reached the height of land, via Root river, on July 10. Thence by the waters of Lake St. Joseph, Osnaburg was reached on the 11th.

This was the first point at which treaty was to be made, and we found the Indians assembled in force, very few being absent of all those who traded at the post. Those who were absent had been to the post for their usual supplies earlier in the summer, and had gone back to their own territory in the vicinity of Cat lake.

Owing to the water connection with Lac Seul, these Indians were familiar with the provisions of Treaty No. 3, and it was feared that more difficulty might be met with at that point than almost any other, on account of the terms which the commissioners were empowered to offer not being quite so favourable as those of the older treaty.

The annuity in Treaty No. 3 is $5 per head, and only $4 was to be offered in this present instance. The proposed treaty did not provide for an issue of implements, cattle, ammunition or seed-grain.

As there was, therefore, some uncertainty as to the result, the commissioners requested the Indians to select from their number a group of representative men to whom the treaty might be explained. Shortly after, those nominated presented themselves and the terms of the treaty were interpreted. They were then told that it was the desire of the commissioners that any point on which they required further explanations should be freely discussed, and any questions asked which they desired to have answered.

Missabay, the recognized chief of the band, then spoke, expressing the fears of the Indians that, if they signed the treaty, they would be compelled to reside upon the reserve to be set apart for them, and would be deprived of the fishing and hunting privileges which they now enjoy.

On being informed that their fears in regard to both these matters were groundless, as their present manner of making their livelihood would in no way be interfered with, the Indians talked the matter over among themselves, and then asked to be given till the following day to prepare their reply. This request was at once acceded to and the meeting adjourned.

The next morning the Indians signified their readiness to give their reply to the commissioners, and the meeting being again convened, the chief spoke, stating that full consideration had been given the request made to them to enter into treaty with His Majesty, and they were prepared to sign, as they believed that nothing but good was intended. The money they would receive would be of great benefit to them, and the Indians were all very thankful for the advantages they would receive from the treaty.

The other representatives having signified that they were of the same mind as Missabay, the treaty was then signed and witnessed with all due formality, and payment of the gratuity was at once proceeded with.

The election of chiefs also took place, the band being entitled to one chief and two councillors. The following were elected:Missabay, John Skunk and George Wawaashkung.

After this, the feast which usually accompanies such formalities was given the Indians. Then followed the presentation of a flag, one of the provisions of the treaty; this was to be held by the chief for the time being as an emblem of his authority. Before the feast began, the flag was presented to Missabay the newly elected chief, with words of advice suitable for the occasion. Missabay received it and made an eloquent speech, in which he extolled the manner in which the Indians had been treated by the government; advised the young men to listen well to what the white men had to say, and to follow their advice and not to exalt their own opinions above those of men who knew the world and had brought them such benefits. Missabay, who is blind, has great control over his band, and he is disposed to use his influence in the best interests of the Indians.

At Osnaburg the civilizing work of the Church Missionary Society was noticeable. A commodious church was one of the most conspicuous buildings at the post and the Indians held service in it every evening. This post was in charge of Mr. Jabez Williams, who rendered great service to the party by interpreting whenever necessary. He also gave up his residence for the use of the party.

On the morning of July 13 the question of the location of the reserves was gone fully into, and the Indians showed great acuteness in describing the location of the land they desired to have reserved for them. Their final choice is shown in the schedule of reserves which is annexed to this report.

We left Osnaburg on the morning of July 13, and entered the Albany river, which drains Lake St. Joseph, and, after passing many rapids and magnificent lake stretches of this fine river, we reached Fort Hope at 5 o'clock on the afternoon of the 18th. This important post of the Hudson's Bay Company is situated on the shore of Lake Eabamet, and is the meeting point of a large number of Indians, certainly 700, who have their hunting grounds on both sides of the Albany and as far as the headwaters of the Winisk river. The post was in charge of Mr. C. H. M. Gordon.

The same course of procedure was followed as at Osnaburg. The Indians were requested to select representatives to whom the business of the commission might be explained, and on the morning of the l9th the commissioners met a number of representative Indians in the Hudson's Bay Company's house. Here the commissioners had the benefit of the assistance of Rev. Father F. X Fafard, of the Roman Catholic Mission at Albany, whose thorough knowledge of the Cree and Ojibeway tongues was of great assistance during the discussion.

A more general conversation in explanation of the terms of the treaty followed than had occurred at Osnaburg. Moonias, one of the most influential chiefs, asked a number of questions. He said that ever since he was able to earn anything, and that was from the time he was very young, he had never been given something for nothing; that he always had to pay for everything that he got, even if it was only a paper of pins. "Now," he said "you gentlemen come to us from the King offering to give us benefits for which we can make no return. How is this?" Father Fafard thereupon explained to him the nature of the treaty, and that by it the Indians were giving their faith and allegiance to the King, and for giving up their title to a large area of land of which they could make no use, they received benefits that served to balance anything that they were giving.

"Yesno," who received his name from his imperfect knowledge of the English language, which consisted altogether in the use of the words "yes" and "no," made an excited speech, in which he told the Indians that they were to receive cattle and implements, seed-grain and tools. Yesno had evidently travelled, and had gathered an erroneous and exaggerated idea of what the government was doing for Indians in other parts of the country, but, as the undersigned wished to guard carefully against any misconception or against making any promises which were not written in the treaty itself, it was explained that none of these issues were to be made, as the band could not hope to depend upon agriculture as a means of subsistence; that hunting and fishing, in which occupations they were not to be interfered with, should for very many years prove lucrative sources of revenue. The Indians were informed that by signing the treaty they pledged themselves not to interfere with white men who might come into the country surveying, prospecting, hunting, or in other occupations; that they must respect the laws of the land in every particular, and that their reserves were set apart for them in order that they might have a tract in which they could not be molested, and where no white man would have any claims without the consent of their tribe and of the government.

After this very full discussion, the treaty was signed, and payment was commenced. The payment was finished on the next day, and the Indian feast took place, at which the chiefs elected were Katchange, Yesno, Joe Goodwin, Benj. Ooskinegisk, and George Quisees. The newly elected chiefs made short speeches, expressing their gladness at the conclusion of the treaty and their determination to be true to its terms and stipulations.

It is considered worthy of record to remark on the vigorous and manly qualities displayed by these Indians throughout the negotiations. Although undoubtedly at times they suffer from lack of food owing to the circumstances under which they live, yet they appeared contented, and enjoy a certain degree of comfort. Two active missions are established at Fort Hope, the Anglican, under the charge of Rev. Mr. Richards, who is resident, and the Roman Catholic, under the charge of Rev. Father Fafard, who visits from the mission at Albany.

Fort Hope was left on the morning of July 21, and after passing through Lake Eabamet the Albany was reached again, and after three days' travel we arrived at Marten Falls at 7.35 on the morning of Tuesday, July 25.

This is an important post of the Hudson's Bay Company, in charge of Mr. Samuel Iserhoff. A number of Indians were awaiting the arrival of the commission. The first glance at the Indians served to convince that they were not equal in physical development to those at Osnaburg or Fort Hope, and the comparative poverty of their hunting grounds may account for this fact.

The necessary business at this post was transacted on the 25th. The treaty, after due explanation, was signed and the payment made immediately. Shortly before the feast the Indians elected their chief, Wm. Whitehead, and two councillors, Wm. Coaster and Long Tom Ostamas.

At the feast Chief Whitehead made an excellent speech, in which he described the benefits that would follow the treaty and his gratitude to the King and the government for extending a helping and protecting hand to the Indians.

The reserve was fixed at a point opposite the post and is described fully in the schedule of reserves.

The commodious Roman Catholic church situated on the high bank of the river overlooking the Hudson's Bay Company's buildings was the most conspicuous object at this post.

Marten Falls was left on the morning of Wednesday, July 26. Below this point the Albany flows towards James Bay without any impediment of rapids or falls, but with a swift current, which is a considerable aid to canoe travel.

The mouth of the Kenogami river was reached at 2.45 on the afternoon of July 27. This river flows in with a large volume of water and a strong current. It took two days of heavy paddling and difficult tracking to reach the English River post, which is situated about 60 miles from the mouth of the river and near the Forks. We found many of the Indians encamped along the river, and they followed us in their canoes to the post, where we arrived on the afternoon of July 29.

This is a desolate post of the Hudson's Bay Company, in charge of Mr. G. B. Cooper. There are very few Indians in attendance at any time; about half of them were assembled, the rest having gone to "The Line," as the Canadian Pacific railway is called, to trade.

Compared with the number at Fort Hope or Osnaburg, there was a mere handful at English River, and it did not take long to explain to the Indians the reason why the commission was visiting them. As these people cannot be considered a separate band, but a branch of the Albany band, it was not thought necessary to have them sign the treaty, and they were merely admitted as an offshoot of the larger and more important band.

The terms of the treaty having been fully explained, the Indians stated that they were willing to come under its provisions, and they were informed that by the acceptance of the gratuity they would be held to have entered treaty, a statement which they fully realized. As the morrow was Sunday, and as it was important to proceed without delay, they were paid at once.

We left the English River post early on Monday morning, and reached the mouth of the river at 6 p.m. Coming again into the Albany, we met a number of Marten Falls Indians who had not been paid, and who had been camped at the mouth of the river, expecting the commission . After being paid, they camped on the shore near us, and next morning proceeded on their way to Marten Falls, with their York boats laden with goods from Fort Albany. The next day a party of Albany Indians were paid at the mouth of Cheepy river, and the post itself was reached on the morning of August 3, at 9.30. Here the commissioners had the advantage of receiving much assistance from Mr. G. W. Cockram, who was just leaving the post on his way to England, and Mr. A. W. Patterson, who had just taken charge in his stead.

In the afternoon the chief men selected by the Indians were convened in a large room in the Hudson's Bay Company's store, and an interesting and satisfactory conversation followed. The explanations that had been given at the other points were repeated here, and two of the Indians, Arthur Wesley and Wm. Goodwin, spoke at some length, expressing on their own behalf and on behalf of their comrades the pleasure they felt upon being brought into the treaty and the satisfaction they experienced on receiving such generous treatment from the Crown. Some of the Indians were away at their hunting grounds at Attawapiskat river, and it was thought advisable to postpone the election of chiefs until next year. The Indians were paid on August 4 and 5.

During the afternoon the Hudson's Bay Company's steamer Innenew arrived, with the Right Rev. George Holmes, the Anglican Bishop of Moosonee, on board.

On Saturday the Indians feasted and presented the commissioners with an address written in Cree syllabic, of which the following is a translation:

"From our hearts we thank thee, O Great Chief, as thou hast pitied us and given us temporal help. We are very poor and weak. He (the Great Chief) has taken us over, here in our own country, through you (his servants)."

"Therefore from our hearts we thank thee, very much, and pray for thee to Our Father in heaven. Thou hast helped us in our poverty."

"Every day we pray, trusting that we may be saved through a righteous life; and for thee we shall ever pray that thou mayest be strong in God's strength and by His assistance."

"And we trust that it may ever be with us as it is now; we and our children will in the church of God now and ever thank Jesus."

"Again we thank you (commissioners) from our hearts."

Fort Albany is an important post of the Hudson's Bay Company, and here there are two flourishing missions, one of the Roman Catholic and one of the Church of England. Father Fafard has established a large boarding school, which accommodates 20 Indian pupils in charge of the Grey Nuns from the parent house at Ottawa. Here assistance is given to sick Indians in the hospital ward, and a certain number of aged people who cannot travel with their relatives are supported each winter. The church and presbytery are commodious and well built, and the whole mission has an air of prosperity and comfort. The celebration of mass was well attended on Sunday. The Church of England mission is also in a flourishing condition. The large church was well filled for all Sunday services conducted by Bishop Holmes, and the Indians took an intelligent part in the services.

We left Albany on the morning of Monday, August 7, in a sail-boat chartered from the Hudsons' Bay Company, and, the wind being strong and fair, we anchored off the mouth of Moose river at 7 o'clock the same evening. Weighing anchor at daylight on Tuesday morning, we drifted with the tide, and a light, fitful wind and reached Moose Factory at 10.30. We had been accompanied on the journey by Bishop Holmes, who immediately upon landing interested himself with Mr. J. G. Mowat, in charge of this important post of the Hudson's Bay Company, to secure a meeting of representatives Indians on the morrow.

On the morning of the 9th a meeting was held in a large room placed at our disposal by the Hudson's Bay Company. The Indians who had been chosen to confer with us seemed remarkably intelligent and deeply interested in the subject to be discussed. When the points of the treaty were explained to them, they expressed their perfect willingness to accede to the terms and conditions. Frederick Mark, who in the afternoon was elected chief, said the Indians were all delighted that a treaty was about to be made with them; they had been looking forward to it for a long time, and were glad that they were to have their hopes realized and that there was now a prospect of law and order being established among them. John Dick remarked that one great advantage the Indians hoped to derive from the treaty was the establishment of schools wherein their children might receive an education. George Teppaise said they were thankful that the King had remembered them, and that the Indians were to receive money, which was very much needed by many who were poor and sick. Suitable responses were made to these gratifying speeches by ourselves and Bishop Holmes, and the treaty was immediately signed. Payment commenced next day and was rapidly completed.

It was a matter of general comment that the Moose Factory Indians were the most comfortably dressed and best nourished of the Indians we had so far met with.

On the evening of Thursday the Indians announced that they had elected the following chief and councillors: Frederick Mark, James Job, Simon Quatchequan and Simon Cheena. As they were to have their feast in the evening, it was decided to present the flag to the chief on that occasion. The feast was held in a large workshop placed at the disposal of the Indians by the Company; and before this hall, just as night was coming on, the flag was presented to Chief Mark. In many respects it was a unique occasion. The gathering was addressed by Bishop Holmes, who began with a prayer in Cree, the Indians making their responses and singing their hymns in the same language. Bishop Holmes kindly interpreted the address of the commissioners, which was suitably replied to by Chief Mark. It may be recorded that during our stay at this point a commodious church was crowded every evening by interested Indians, and that the good effect of the ministrations for many years of the Church Missionary Society were plain, not only to Moose Factory but after the immediate influence of the post and the missionaries had been left. The crew from Moose Factory which accompanied the commissioners as far as Abitibi held service every night in camp, recited a short litany, sang a hymn and engaged in prayer, a fact we think worthy of remark, as in the solitude through which we passed this Christian service made a link with civilization and the best influences at work in the world which had penetrated even to these remote regions. On Friday, August 11, the question of a reserve was gone into, and settled to the satisfaction of ourselves and the Indians. A description of the location is given in the schedule of reserves.

During our stay we had the opportunity of inspecting Bishop's Court, at one time the residence of the Bishop of Moosonee, but which the present bishop intends to convert into a boarding school for Indian children. The hospital under the supervision of Miss Johnson was also inspected.

On Saturday, August 12, we left Moose Factory at 12.30. For one week we were engaged with the strong rapids of the Moose and Abitibi rivers, and did not reach New Post, our next point of call, until 12.30 on Saturday, the 19th. New Post is a small and comparatively unimportant post of the Hudson's Bay Company. It is situated on a beautiful bend of the Abitibi river, and commands an excellent hunting country. The post is in charge of Mr. S. B. Barrett, and nowhere was the commission received with greater consideration and hospitality than at a this place. The New Post Indians, although few in number, are of excellent character and disposition. They met us with great friendliness. The treaty was concluded on Monday, the 21st, and the Indians were at once paid. The reserve question was also discussed, and the location finally fixed as shown by the schedule of reserves. One of the leading Indians, Esau Omakess, was absent from the reserve during the negotiations. He, however, arrived during the time the payments were being made, and signified his approval of the action taken by his fellow Indians. He was subsequently chosen unanimously as chief of the band.

We started for Abitibi on Tuesday morning, August 22. On the previous evening the chief had announced to the commissioners his intention of accompanying the party, with five companions, to assist in passing the difficult series of portages which lie immediately above New Post. One unacquainted with the methods of travel in these regions will not perhaps realize the great assistance this was to the party. At a moderate estimate, it saved one day's travel; and this great assistance was to be rendered, the chief said, without any desire for reward or even for maintenance on the route (they were to bring their own supplies with them), but simply to show their good-will to the commissioner and their thankfulness to the King and the government for the treatment which had been accorded them. They remained with us until the most difficult portages were passed, and left on the evening of August 24, with mutual expressions of good-will. As we ascended the Abitibi evidences of approaching civilization and of the activity in railway construction and surveying, which had rendered the making of the treaty necessary, were constantly met with. Surveying parties of the Transcontinental railway, the Timiskaming and Northern Ontario railway and Ontario township surveyors were constantly met with.

On the morning of August 29 we reached Lake Abitibi, camped at the Hudson's Bay Company's winter post at the Narrows on the same evening, and arrived at Abitibi post the next night at dusk. We did not expect to find many Indians in attendance, as they usually leave for their hunting grounds about the first week in July. There were, however, a few Indians who were waiting at the post in expectation of the arrival of the commission. These were assembled at 2.30 on the afternoon of August 31, and the purpose of the commission was carefully explained to them. Until we can report the successful making of the treaty, which we hope to accomplish next year, we do not think it necessary to make any further comment on the situation at this post. A full list of the Indians was obtained from the officer in charge of the Hudson's Bay Company's post, Mr. George Drever. Mr. Drever has thorough command of the Cree and Ojibeway languages, which was of great assistance to the commissioners at Abitibi, where, owing to the fact of the Indians belonging to the two provinces, Ontario and Quebec, it was necessary to draw a fine distinction, and where the explanations had to be most carefully made in order to avoid future misunderstanding and dissatisfaction. Mr. Drever cheerfully undertook this difficult office and performed it to our great satisfaction.

We left Abitibi on the morning of September 1, with an excellent crew and made Klock's depot without misadventure on Monday, September 4. We reached Haileybury on the 6th and arrived at Ottawa on September 9.

In conclusion we beg to give a short resume of the work done this season. Cession was taken of the tract described in the treaty, comprising about 90,000 square miles, and, in addition, by the adhesion of certain Indians whose hunting grounds lie in a northerly direction from the Albany river, which may be roughly described as territory lying between that river and a line drawn from the northeast angle of Treaty No. 3, along the height of land separating the waters which flow into Hudson Bay by the Severn and Winisk from those which flow into James Bay by the Albany and Attawapiskat, comprising about 40,000 square miles. Gratuity was paid altogether to 1,617 Indians, representing a total population, when all the absentees are paid and allowance made for names not on the list, of 2,500 approximately. Throughout all the negotiations we carefully guarded against making any promises over and above those written in the treaty which might afterwards cause embarrassment to the governments concerned. No outside promises were made, and the Indians cannot, and we confidently believe do not, expect any other concessions than those set forth in the documents to which they gave their adherence. It was gratifying throughout to be met by these Indians with such a show of cordiality and trust, and to be able fully to satisfy what they believed to be their claims upon the governments of this country. The treatment of the reserve question, which in this treaty was most important, will, it is hoped, meet with approval. For the most part the reserves were selected by the commissioners after conference with the Indians. They have been selected in situations which are especially advantageous to their owners, and where they will not in any way interfere with railway development or the future commercial interests of the country. While it is doubtful whether the Indians will ever engage in agriculture, these reserves, being of a reasonable size, will give a secure and permanent interest in the land which the indeterminate possession of a large tract could never carry. No valuable water-powers are included within the allotments. The area set apart is, approximately, 374 square miles in the Northwest Territories and 150 square miles in the province of Ontario. When the vast quantity of waste and, at present, unproductive land, surrendered is considered, these allotments must, we think, be pronounced most reasonable.

We beg to transmit herewith copy of the original of the treaty signed in duplicate, and schedule of reserves.

We have the honour to be, sir,
Your obedient servants,
DUNCAN C. SCOTT,
SAMUEL STEWART,
DANIEL G. MACMARTIN,
Treaty Commissioners.

*Mr. D.G. MacMartin