Articles of agreement and of a treaty made and concluded by James Duane Doty, commissioner on the part of the 	United States, and the half-breeds of the Dakota or Sioux nation.

By the treaty of the United States with the Minda-wau-kau-ton, Wof-pa-koo-ta, Wof-pa-to, and See-see-ah-to bands of the said Dakota nation, made on the 15th day of July, 1830, a large and valuable tract of land (supposed to contain three hundred and fifty thousand acres) was reserved to the half-breeds, and the President was authorized, by said treaty, to assign to any of said half-breeds, to be held by him or them in fee simple, any portion of said cession, not exceeding six hundred and forty acres, to each individual: And whereas, the late President, on application being made to him by several of said half-breeds, did refuse to assign any part of said tract to them, in consequence whereof the said half-breeds have been unable, for eleven years, and when they were in the greatest need, to derive any advantage from the said cession, which was made expressly for their benefit: And whereas, the said tract is or may be required by the Government of the United States as a part of the Indian territory to be established north of the line which may become the northern boundary of the State ofIowa,-it is, therefore, agreed as follows, to wit: 	

ARTICLE 1. The said half-breeds cede and convey to the United States the said tract, bounded and described as

follows, to wit: "Beginning at a place called the Barn, below and near the village of the Red Wing chief, and running back fifteen miles; thence, in a parallel line, with Lake Pepin and the Mississippi about thirty-two miles, to a point opposite Beef or O'Boeuf river; thence fifteen miles, to the grand encampment, opposite the river aforesaid."

ART. 2. In consideration of the said cession, the United States agree to pay to the said half-breeds, on the ratification of this treaty, the sum of two hundred thousand dollars. The said commissioner shall be, and he is hereby authorized, on the proofs submitted to him, to ascertain and determine the individuals who were entitled to the benefits of the said provision in the said treaty of 1830, and to pay to them or their representatives their equal proportion of the said sum. The reference hereby made to the said commissioner, is inserted at the instance, and on the particular request of the said half-breeds, parties to this treaty.

ART. 3. The United States also agree to pay to those half-breeds who are now in the occupation of the said tract, the value of their houses and improvements out of the said sum, to be ascertained by the said commissioner; but there shall be no allowance for improvements which shall be made after the date of this treaty.

In witness whereof, the said parties have hereunto subscribed their names, Oe-yoo-wa-rha, this thirty-fIrst day of July, in the year one thousand eight hundred and forty-one.

Signed by the half-breeds of the Minee-so-ta river, in presence of

	The following signtures were made, Oe-yoo-wa-rha, in presence of before mentioned witnesses.

Elizabeth Rinville, her x mark,	By her husband, Joseph Rinville, sr.

Therese Rinville, by her husband, Joseph Rinville,jr.	

Joseph R. Comsalle,	By their mother, her x mark.

Francois Laframboise,	Mary Crawford, her x mark.

Angelique Dupuis, her x mark, by her father, Joseph Rinville, sr.

Joseph Rinville, by his father, Joseph Rinville, jr.

Alexander D. Campbell,jr. Rosalie Fresniere, her x mark. Angelique Fresniere, her x mark. 

Margerite Fresniere, her x mark. Louis Fresniere, by his grandfather,

Jean B. Lord, By their guardian, H. H. Sibley.

	The following signatures were made at Mindota, August 13, 1841.

Alexander Prescott, by his father, P. Prescott.	

Hiram Prescott, by his father, P. Prescott.

Lucy Prescott, by her father, P. Prescott.	

Mary E. OrtIey, Henry T. Ortley, by their trustee,Martin McLeod.

Harriet Prescott, by her father,P. Prescott.	

The following signatures were made at Prairie du Chien, August 27, 1841.

Harriet Storer, by A. S. Hoor, her brother-in-law.	

Harriet Mangre, by her husband,o. Faribautt.

Margarett Mooers, by her husband,H. Mooers.

John Mooers, Mary Mooers,Jane Ann Mooers, By their father, H. Mooers.

Marie Beland, by her husband, Horore Beland.

Archange Grignon, her x mark, for self and three children,	

Battest Campbell, by their father,S. Campbell.

Joseph Coarsolle, by his guardian,B. W. Brisbois.	

Therese Brisbois, by B. W. Brisbois, her husband.

Pelaje Faribautt, by her husband, Bte. Faribautt.

Emily R. Faribautt,M. Ls. C. C. Faribautt,Frederick Faribautt, by their father,Bte. Faribautt.

Elezeph Faribautt, by her husband, Alex. Faribautt.

Agnes Faribautt, by their father. Alex. Faribautt.

Chas. Pizanne,Emily Pizanne, George Pizanne, by their guardian, H. L. Dousman.