Whereas His Majesty, King George, by the concession of the Most Christian King made at the Treaty of Utrecht, became the rightful possessor of the Province of Nova Scotia or Acadie according to its ancient boundaries, we, the said Indians Sanguaarum alias Loron, Arexus Francois Xavier, and Meganumbe, delegates from the said tribes of Penobscot, Naudgewaek, St. Johns, Cape Sables, and other tribes inhabiting His Majesty's territories in Nova Scotia or Acadie and New England, in the name and behalf of the said tribes, do hereby acknowledge His Said Majesty King George's jurisdiction and dominion over the said territories of Nova Scotia or Acadie and make our submission to his said Majesty in as ample a manner as we have formerly done to his most Christian Kings.

And we further promise, on behalf of the said tribes we represent, that the Indians shall not molest any of His Majesty's subjects or their dependents, and their settlements already made or lawfully to be made, or in their carrying on their traffic or their affairs within the said Province.

That if there happens any robbery or outrage committed by any of the Indians, the tribe or tribes they belong to shall cause satisfaction and restitution to be made to the parties injured.

That the Indians shall not help to convey away any soldiers belonging to His Majesty's forts but, on the contrary, shall bring back any soldiers they shall find endeavoring to run away.

That in the case of any misunderstanding, quarrel, or injury between the English and the Indians, no private revenge shall be taken, but application shall be made for redress according to His Majesty's laws.

That if the Indians have made any prisoners belonging to the government of Nova Scotia or Acadie during the course of the war, they shall be released at or before the ratification of this Treaty.

That this Treaty shall be ratified at Annapolis Royal.

Dated at the Council Chamber in Boston in New England, this fifteenth day of December, Anno Domini one thousand seven hundred and twenty-five, Anno Regni Regis Georgii Magna Britannica, duodecimo.

Signed, sealed, and delivered in the presence of the Great & General Court or Assembly of the Province of Massachusetts Bay. Attested by J. Williard, Sec.