Sir William Johnson to the Lords of Trade.

[Plantations General Papers, S., No. 27.]

Johnson Hall, Aug: 30th 1764.

My Lords,

In my last of the 11th of May, I had the honour of acquainting your Lordship with the success of my Indian Partys, and my transactions from January to that period, as also, of my then intended journey to Niagara, to receive the submission of, and enter into an alliance with the Western Nations, who had requested peace. Accordingly I set out last June, and arrived at Niagara the 8th of July, where I found some of the Western Nations already assembled, at the same time Coll: Bradstreet arrived with the army under his Command, to accompany which, I had brought upwards of six hundred of the Friend Indians. By the 25th, I had Deputys from almost every Nation to the Westward vizt Hurons, Ottawaes, Chippawaes, Meynomineys or Folles avoins. Foxes, Sakis, Puans ettc. with some from the North side, of Lake Superior and the neighbourhood of Hudson's Bay, but it was not, till some days after that, the Senecas came in, a report having prevailed among them, that the English intended to cut them off. This delay of theirs, which at first we were at a loss to account for, rendered it impolitic for the Troops to move, and leave the carrying place exposed, until we had settled matters with them; the whole number of the Indians amounted to 2060, of which 1700 were fighting Men, a greater number, than ever assembled in one body, on the like, or any other occasion.

The treaties of peace with the Hurons of Detroit and the Enemy Senecas, I have the honour to enclose you herewith. As for the other Nations, they declared, that they only came to renew their engagements, not having approved of the War, or engaged in it, except some individuals who had left them for that purpose, and the Indians being likewise furnished with several certificates from Major Gladwin, and other officers, importing that they had behaved very well, and protected the Garrisons of la Baye and Michilimainac, I thought it best to promise them, that they should be admitted into the Covenant Chain of Friendship, on their agreeing to the reestablishment of Michilimacinac (which Coll: Bradstreet was ordered to effect) and promising to get all prisoners out of the Enemys hands, as also to procure some restitution for the Traders losses ; all which, they engaged to perform. The Hurons delivered three prisoners, and the Senecas 14. with a Deserter.—The Delawares of Susquehana and its branches having abandoned their habitations after the success of my first Indian party, applied to the Senecas of Chenussio to use their Interest that the breach between them and the English might be made up, ^and sent several Belts of Wampum with them to that effect, which I refused to accept of, till they had delivered a person called their King, together with their Chief Warrior, and all the prisoners in their possession; which, the Chenussios engaged to see performed, and delivered up two of their own Chiefs as Hostages, who are in confinement, till the same be complied with. Matters thus far settled on the 6th of this instant; Coll: Bradstreet and the Troops accompanied by the Friend Indians, proceeded for Lake Erie, and the same day I set out on my return home, where I arrived a few days ago.

The cession made by the Senecas is very considerable, and will, I hope, put a stop to all future disputes about the carrying place ; in fact, they have been great losers by us concerning it, as they were the only carriers made use of by the French Traders, but since our possessing Niagara, carriages were made use of at a much higher rate, and even a monopoly attempted there, but for my remonstrances against it.—My sole motive, for accepting of the Islands, which they so earnestly pressed on me, was to have it in my power humbly to offer them to His Majesty ; one of them contains near 15000 acres and has much Grass land, which will be very useful to the Cattle at the Garrisons.

Pondiac is with some of the most obstinate as yet in the Miamis Country near the West End of Lake Erie, but he has sent to desire peace, and 1 believe is only apprehensive for his security and that of those with him, otherwise he would have attended the Congress ; The Pottawatamies staid back on the same account, the Shawanese and Delawares about the River are, I apprehend, greatly alarmed at the fidelity of the Indians in our interest ; Coll Boquet is preparing to go against them and the enterprise must be attended with many difficulties; 1 have just sent a party of Indians to accompany him—this is the State of these Indians at present. Your Lordship will doubtless approve of my giving my sentiments on the stability of the peace, I shall do so, in as few words as possible, without enlarging on the particulars I have formerly mentioned.—The Indians who are removed to a distance from our settlements, are so jealous of us, and so alarmed on being denied some favours, which they were used to, that they will hardly think a peace binding, unless it is followed by some gifts which interests them, in the observance of it; they apprehend we design to enslave them, and they consider our advancing into their country, as so many steps to effect it. They are very solicitous for Trade, and it was judged necessary to promise it to them, when all our Enemies were brought to reason ; I therefore told them that the sooner they effected it, the better it would be for themselves, in short. Trade they will have, or have recourse to plundering, and the people in the provinces appear as eager for it, as they do; thousands subsist by it, who must be ruined without it, and fail of making their remittances to Europe.

To render this peace lasting, I know no methods better, than those I have had the honour in my last letters to lay before your Lordship; if we conquer their prejudices by our generosity, they will lay aside their jealousies, and we may rest in security. This is much cheaper, than any other plan, and more certain of success; our extensive frontiers renders it necessary, if we will provide for their security ; for our out Posts, Convoys Traders and frontiers Inhabitants, are at all times in the power of the Enemy, and from some one of them, they can always draw recourses for annoying the rest. The operations of last Campaign, demonstrated their own power to the Indians, beyond any other they ever knew; they saw themselves able to effect what was looked upon by many of our prejudiced Politicians here, as utterly impossible, notwithstanding all my remonstrances founded on many years experience. The Indians all know, we cannot be a match for them in the midst of an extensive, woody Country, where, tho' we may at a large expense convey an army, we can not continue it there, but must leave our small Posts at the end of the Campaign, liable either to be blockaded, surprised, or taken by Treachery. View all our attempts made to possess the interior Country, and your Lordship will find, we have met with the same spirit of opposition from the Indians, from whence I infer, that if we are determined to possess our Out Posts, Trade etc. securely, it can not be done for a Century by any other means, than that of purchasing the favour of the numerous Indian Inhabitants. To limit the out posts, and confine the commerce to those which are most considerable, will certainly be less hazardous, and expensive, as well as answer every purpose we want; the retaining Posts two or three hundred miles distant from each other, did not make us Masters of a Foot of ground about them, and instead of awing the Indians, were themselves awed by them. I can affirm these sentiments to be just, and what must be experienced, if not so already, and that any other representation must proceed from error or prejudice, and must prove destructive to the American Frontiers.

I am in daily expectation of the honour of your Lordship's sentiments, on what I have formerly transmitted—and I remain with the most profound Respect—My Lords, Your Lordship etc.


P. S. Lieut: Coll : William Eyre of the 44th Regiment and Chief Engineer in America, will have the honour to deliver your Lordship this, provided he goes as soon as expected to London, otherwise it is to go by the Pacquet.

Articles of Peace between Sir William Johnson and the Huron Indians.

[Plantations General Papers, S., No. 28.]

Articles of Peace, friendship and Alliance, Concluded by Sir William Johnson, Bart, His Majesty's Sole Agent and Superintendent of Indian Affairs, for the Northern district of North America, Colonel of the Six United Nations, &ca, on behalf of his Brittanic Majesty, with the Huron Indians of the Detroit.

Article 1.

Sir William Johnson Bart doth agree with the Hurons that a firm and absolute peace shall take place, from the date of these presents, between the English and them, and that they be admitted into the chain of friendship and alliance with his Brittanic Majesty, to which end the Hurons are immediately to stop any attempts towards hostilities which might be meditated by any of their people, and they engage never to attempt disturbing the public tranquility hereafter, or to conceal such attempt of any others, but will use their utmost endeavours to preserve inviolable the peace they hereby enter into, and so hand it down to posterity.

Article 2nd

That any English who may be Prisoners, or deserters, and any Negroes, Panis, or other Slaves amongst the Hurons, who are British property, shall be delivered up, within one month, to the Commandant of the Detroit, and that the Hurons use all possible endeavors to get those who are in the hands of the neighbouring Nations ; engaging never to entertain any deserters, fugitives, or slaves; but should any such fly to them for protection, they are to deliver them up to the next commanding officer.

Article 3rd

That they will not from henceforth maintain any friendship with any of His Majesty's enemies, or maintain any intercourse with those who may promote war and troubles, but will oppose their designs, and treat them as common enemies, and that they will never listen to any idle stories of any white men or Indians who may spread false reports; but if any matter or grievance arises, they are, either through the channel of the Commandant of Detroit, or by personal application to Sir William Johnson, to represent their complaints.

Article 4th

That they acknowledge His Britannic Majesty's right to all the lands above their Village, on both sides the strait, to Lake St Clair, in as full and ample manner as the same was ever claimed or enjoyed by the French.

Article 5th

That they do, to the Utmost, secure the strait or passage from Lake Erie to the Detroit, and do use their utmost endeavours to protect the navigation thereof, either with ships or boats, against any attempts of an enemy, as well as defend all persons who may have occasion to go to, or return from Detroit by Land or Water. And lastly that they do now. or at any other time, at the requisition of the Commandant of Detroit, or any other. His Majesty's Officers, furnish such a number of their Warriors as may appear necessary for the protection thereof, or the annoyance of the Enemy.

In Consequence of the perfect agreement of the Hurons to the foregoing Articles, Sir William Johnson doth, by virtue of the powers and authorities to him given by His Majesty, promise and declare that all hostilities on the part of His Majesty against the Hurons shall cease, that past offences shall be forgiven, and that the said Indians shall enjoy all their original rights and privileges, as also be indulged with a free, fair, and open trade, agreeable to such regulations as His Majesty shall direct.

Given under my hand and seal at arms, at Niagara, the 18th day of July, 1764.

The chiefs of the Hurons have, in testimony of their Accordance to the foregoing articles, Subscribed the marks of their respective tribes, the whole being first duly Explained to them.


Articles of Peace between Sir William Johnson and the Genesee Indians.

[Plantations General Papers, 8., No. 29.]

Treaty of Peace and alliance, between His Britanic Majesty, and the Chenussio Indians and other Enemy Senecas, concluded by Sir William Johnson Baronet, with the Chiefs of that Nation.

Sir William Johnson Baronet on behalf of His Britanic Majesty, and the Chiefs of all Chenussio on behalf of their People and the rest of the Enemy Senecas do agree to the following articles of peace :

Article 1st

The Chenussios solemnly engage that a lasting peace shall be maintained on their sides with the English, and that they will never suffer their people to commit hostilities on any of His Majesty's subjects or their property.

Article 2nd

The Covenant, or old agreement, between the English and them, and the preliminaries signed by their Deputies last April at Johnson Hall, shall be the basis of this Treaty ; and therefore the Chenussios confirm all the said preliminaries, except, that regarding the delivering up the two Kanestio Murderers, one of them being dead, the other is pardoned on their acceding to the additional Articles.

Article 3rd

That, as the Delawares of Susquehana, who came for protection to Chenussio last spring, after their Castles were destroyed by Sir Wm Johnson's Indian parties, are now suing for peace, thro' the Chenussios mediation ; the Chenussios engage to deliver up at Oswego within three weeks, Ataweetsera the Delaware King, and Onnusseraqueta their chief Warrior, with every prisoner, Deserter, Frenchman and Negro amongst them ; then, and not before, the Delawares shall be treated with, without regard to those Delawares taken by the Friend Indians, who are at the Generals disposal, & without regard to those given to or adopted by the Friend Indians.

Article 4th

That the Chenussios deliver up at the same time Sherlock the Deserter, and the prisoners yet amongst them, so as they may accompany those fourteen already delivered up to Sir William Johnson ; for the performance of all which, the Chenussios now deliver up Souwarraghijojiana and Arighwadaga, two of their Chiefs as hostages.

Article 5th

In addition to the grant made by the Chenussio Deputys to His Majesty at Johnson Hall, in April, of the Lands from Fort Niagara, to the upper end of the carrying place, beyond Fort Schloster and four miles in breadth on each side of the River, the Chenussios now, surrender up all the lands from the upper end of the former Grant (and of the same breadth) to the Rapids of Lake Erie, to His Majesty, for His sole use, and that of the Garrisons, but not as private property, it being near some of their hunting grounds ; so that all that Tract, of the breadth before mentioned, from Lake Ontario to Lake Erie, shall become vested in the Crown, in manner as before mentioned, excepting the Islands between the great Falls and the Rapids, which the Chenussios bestow upon Sir Wm Johnson as a proof of their regard and of their knowledge of the trouble he has had with them from time to time. All which the Chenussios hope will be acceptable to His Majesty, and that they may have some token of His favour.

In consequence of the foregoing, Sir William Johnson doth on the part of his Majty, Ratify and confirm all the articles subscribed to, last April, not excepted to herein, and promises that the same shall be strictly observed, as well with regard to the punishment of Offenders, as concerning the enjoyment of all their Rights, privileges and possessions.

Given under my hand and Seal at Arms and subscribed by the Chiefs of the Senecas at Niagara the sixth day of August 1764.